5 Reasons Your Boss Should Send You to the Mashable Media Summit	1	1	1		
The media has evolved from pamphlets to podcasts in order to deliver news to customers. In rare instances, some of the best minds in media and advertising come together and share where media is going next. One of these opportunities will occur on Nov. 2, 2012 at the Mashable Media Summit.	2	2	1		
[More from Mashable: YouTube-Grown Duo Karmin Make the Cover of ‘Rolling Stone’]				I	
The Mashable Media Summit is a one-day conference that explores how new forms of technology are redefining media. Industry leaders will speak at the TimesCenter in New York City to explore the latest innovations in the space and the future of journalism.	1	1	1		
Tickets include all conference sessions, breakfast, lunch and a networking reception. Get your tickets now before they sell out.	1	1	1		
[More from Mashable: More Americans Getting News From Mobile and Social as Print, TV Decline [STUDY]]				I	
Or better yet, ask your company to buy your ticket. Here are five compelling reasons why attending the 2012 Mashable Media Summit is a valuable investment for you and your organization.	3	2	1		
1. Industry leaders: Experts from Hearst Corp., Tumblr, Reddit, Facebook, Linkedin, PBS, AKQA, SocialFlow, Salon and others will speak about the latest trends and innovations in media and advertising.	1	1	1		
2. Partnerships: This one-day conference brings together a wide range of professionals in digital, tech, advertising, sales, marketing, mobile and publishing. This is a perfect opportunity to network and form new business relationships.	2	3	1		
3. Educational: With topics like "digital media 2013 trends," "the biggest lies in advertising" and "social analytics: what you can and should be measuring," you will learn actionable takeaways you can bring back to the office.	2	2	1		
4. Inspirational: Get motivated by new ideas and information.	1	2	1		
5. Networking and mingling with Mashable staff: Mashable staff will be around and excited to network and mingle with our community.	2	3	1		
Check out the highlights below of last year's sold out Mashable Media Summit. This is one event you don't want to miss, so get your tickets now!	4	1	1		
Image courtesy of iStockphoto, wragg				I	
Date: Friday, Nov. 2, 2012 Time: 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Location: The TimesCenter, 242 West 41st Street, New York, NY 10036 Tickets: Purchase early bird tickets on Eventbrite.	1	1	1		
The Mashable Media Summit on Nov. 4 at the Times Center in New York City attracted professionals in digital, tech, advertising, sales, marketing, mobile and publishing from all over the world.	1	1	1		
Click here to view this gallery.				I	
A limited number of sponsor opportunities are available for the Mashable Media Summit. This is an excellent opportunity to get in front of Mashable’s passionate and influential audience. Contact sponsorships@mashable.com for opportunities.	3	3	1		
This story originally published on Mashable here.				I	