Attacking Iran: Is Israel bluffing?	2	1	2		4
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said this week that Israel's talk of launching a surgical military strike to end Tehran's nuclear program is pure bluff.	3	1	2		4
"While we are fully ready to defend ourselves, we do not take these threats seriously," Ahmadinejad said after arriving in New York for a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly.	3	1	2		4
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has called on President Obama to draw a "red line" that Iran can't cross if it wants to avoid a military confrontation, and at the U.N. on Tuesday, Obama warned Tehran that his administration would "do what we must" to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.	2	1	2		4
Netanyahu worries that Iran could be close to building its first nuclear bomb in six or seven months, although the U.S. believes the danger is farther off.	2	1	2		4
Would Israel really attack Iran on its own if it thinks it can't afford to wait any longer?	2	1	2		4
Israel may very well attack Iran: Israel isn't just rattling sabers, David Makovsky, an Israel expert and senior fellow at the Washington Institute, tells National Journal.	2	1	2		4
Netanyahu and Co. are convinced that if Iran goes nuclear, it will use the bomb to try to make good on its threat to wipe Israel off the map.	2	1	3		4
Israeli leaders aren't sure "about American resolve if diplomacy and sanctions fail," and they're "hardwired" to launch a military strike alone if that's what it takes."The	2	1	2	S	4
path to war with Iran"	1	1	2	S	4
SEE MORE: 5 reasons Netanyahu is challenging Obama over Iran				I	4
Israel is bluffing: Israel doesn't really think Iran's nuclear program puts the Jewish state's very existence "in peril," says Patrick J. Buchanan at Human Events.	3	1	2		4
If it did, it wouldn't waste time discussing conventional air strikes when it could "drop a single atom bomb" and destroy Iran's most fortified nuclear sites for good.	3	1	2		4
Plus, the "mullahs are not madmen" who would risk their own nuclear annihilation by attacking Israel, and Netanyahu knows that.	2	2	2		4
He's bluffing to scare Obama into fighting his war for him."Has	3	1	2	S	4
Obama called Bibi's bluff?"	1	1	1	S	4
Netanyahu wants U.S. help — but he's dead serious: I'm "skeptical that Israel can go it alone," says Michael Ross at Canada's National Post, but that doesn't mean Netanyahu is bluffing.	3	1	2		4
Iran is a sworn enemy of Israel and the West, and the stakes here are too high to be making idle threats.	2	1	3		4
Netanyahu is just "applying much needed pressure" to make sure the international community does something before it's too late.	2	1	2		4
He knows, as everyone should, that "an Iranian regime brandishing nuclear weapons is not just an Israel problem, it is a world problem.""Israel	2	1	3	S	4
needs our help to subdue Iran"	2	1	2	S	4
SEE MORE: Are the Iran sanctions actually working?				I	4
View this article on TheWeek.com				I	4
Get 4 Free Issues of The Week				I	4
Other stories from this topic:				I	4