Calculate Your 2013 Facebook Ad Spend With This Free Tool	1	2	1		4
Aiming to take some of the mystery out of calculating ad spending on Facebook, social media marketing firm Syncapse has introduced a free online tool that lets brand managers do the math.	2	2	1		4
The tool, which went live Thursday morning, takes into account multiple variables that would affect such spending, including target market, market conditions and interests.	1	1	1		4
[More from Mashable: Facebook Testing Automatic ‘Photo Syncing’ Feature For Android Phones]				I	4
In a hypothetical example with a very broad target, Syncapse's calculator recommended that Kraft Foods' Oreo brand spend $27.6 million communicating with existing fans next year and $103 million going after friends of fans. Here's how it got to that number:	1	1	1		4
First, the calculator asks for the size of your target market. You can also specify interests. Facebook has a database of 8 million or so such interests, which can range from celebrities (Martha Stewart) to sports (mountain biking) to TV shows (The Walking Dead.) In this case, no interest was specified:	1	1	1		4
[More from Mashable: Arr! The Complete Guide to Celebrating Talk Like a Pirate Day]				I	4
Scissons acknowledges that the online tool provides a ballpark estimate of spending and that various factors, including Facebook's steady stream of new advertising products, can't be anticipated. However, Scissons says his firm created the tool to illustrate that Facebook is more a platform for CRM than traditional marketing. "There are a lot of agencies on the market that are trying to buy cheap fans," Scissons says. "We're trying to educate the market that they should be thinking of reach and frequency."	1	1	2		4
In the near future, Scissons believes, marketers will begin to think of "frequency" as the new advertising and will bank more on exposure via social media than would-be viral campaigns as a driver of purchases. For example, a woman who is interested in Coach handbags may be a Facebook fan, but she may not be interested in "engaging" with the brand on Facebook very much. However, if she's exposed to the right amount of messaging at the right frequency, eventually the brand will reach her when she's in the market for a handbag.	1	2	1		4
If Scissons is right and marketers begin thinking about social media marketing as CRM, we'll see fewer out-of-the-box creative campaigns, but marketers may be happier overall with the results.	1	2	1		4
What do you think? Let us know in the comments.	1	1	1		4
The Mashable Media Summit 2012 will explore the impact that technology is having on media, and how digital media is affecting our lives and changing the world. This one-day conference will bring together the brightest minds in media, including content creators, technology leaders, entrepreneurs, social media executives and journalists.	1	2	1		4
Date: Friday, Nov. 2, 2012 Time: 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Location: The TimesCenter, 242 West 41st Street, New York, NY 10036 Tickets: Purchase early bird tickets on Eventbrite.	1	1	1		4
The Mashable Media Summit on Nov. 4 at the Times Center in New York City attracted professionals in digital, tech, advertising, sales, marketing, mobile and publishing from all over the world.	1	1	1		4
Click here to view this gallery.				I	4
A limited number of sponsor opportunities are available for the Mashable Media Summit. This is an excellent opportunity to get in front of Mashable’s passionate and influential audience. Contact sponsorships@mashable.com for opportunities.	1	1	1		4
This story originally published on Mashable here.				I	4