Will Chick-fil-A face a backlash for not opposing gay marriage?	1	1	1		4
Chick-fil-A is back in the hot seat over gay marriage.	2	1	1		4
This time, however, the tables are turned.	2	1	1		4
A Chicago alderman, Joe Moreno, announced that he was dropping his opposition to the fried-chicken purveyor's plans to build a new restaurant on his turf, after the company sent him a letter essentially promising to stop donating money to groups who actively oppose same-sex marriage.	2	2	2		4
Gay rights activists, who had been boycotting Chick-fil-A since CEO Dan Cathy said he believed in the "biblical definition" of marriage, cheered.	1	1	2		4
Gay-marriage opponents, however, are furious.	2	1	3		4
Is the chicken chain going to face another boycott over its social policies?	2	1	2		4
This backlash will be worse than the first: Chick-fil-A faced a firestorm for opposing gay marriage, says Doug Stanglin at USA Today, but that was nothing compared to the fury it's facing now from gay-marriage opponents.	2	1	3		4
They had flocked to the restaurant in solidarity, and now they're crushed that the company has apparently "caved."	2	1	2		4
As one commenter on Chick-fil-A's Facebook page put it, the company now has "a whole new group of people who will no longer support" it.	2	1	2		4
"Chick-fil-A's 'cave' stirs new backlash"	3	1	2		4
SEE MORE: Chick-fil-A vs. gay-rights advocates: Winners and losers				I	4
Maybe liberal businesses should brace themselves: I understand why Chick-fil-A would want to "forfeit their status as a national political lightning rod," says Allahpundit at Hot Air.	2	1	2		4
Still, it's "depressing to see them cave" — and I support gay marriage.	3	2	2		4
Letting liberal politicians "bully" you into withholding money from your favorite political causes "sets a terrible precedent."	2	1	2		4
Maybe now red-staters will withhold zoning permits from liberal business-owners until they take "a solemn vow not to give money to the Left anymore.""Chicago	3	1	2	S	4
alderman: Chick-fil-A promised me in writing they’ll stop giving to anti-gay-marriage groups"	2	1	2	S	4
Relax.	3	1	1		4
Nothing has changed: Ecstatic gay marriage supporters are claiming victory, says Dave Tombers at WorldNetDaily, but "it appears the facts are that the company's anti-discrimination policy remains just as it was months ago — before the controversy over owner Dan Cathy’s Christian beliefs erupted."	3	1	2		4
Then, as now, the company promises to "treat every person with honor, dignity and respect," and then, as now, it has said it wants nothing to do with politics.	2	2	1		4
Why should the people who flocked to Chick-fil-A Appreciation Day be upset about that?"Will you boldly proclaim?"	2	1	1		4
SEE MORE: Is Rahm Emanuel bullying Chick-fil-A over gay marriage?				I	4
View this article on TheWeek.com				I	4
Get 4 Free Issues of The Week				I	4
Other stories from this topic:				I	4