Dairy products won't make you skinny, evidence says	1	1	1		3
NEW YORK (Reuters Health) - Adding a couple of servings of milk or yogurt to your daily diet probably won't help you drop any pants sizes, according to a new analysis of past studies.	2	1	2		3
Some research has suggested dairy products may help people feel full for longer, or that the calcium in milk and yogurt can prevent the build-up of fat tissue.	1	1	1		3
But those remain unproven theories.	1	1	1		3
"The results are not very consistent," said Dr. Frank Hu, a nutrition researcher from the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston who worked on the new review.	2	1	1		3
"Overall, I think the evidence doesn't support the claim that dairy products are beneficial for weight loss," he said.	3	1	2		3
Hu and his colleagues analyzed the results of 29 studies including a total of 2,101 participants, some of whom were randomly assigned to add extra dairy to their diets.	1	1	1		3
The set-ups of those studies varied widely, with dairy intakes ranging from one to more than six servings per day and diet interventions lasting between one month and two years.	1	1	1		3
Some studies put participants on a reduced-calorie diet to promote weight loss, while others did not.	1	1	1		3
On average, people assigned to the extra-dairy groups lost 0.3 more pounds - about 0.14 kilograms - than the comparison group, a difference that could have been due to chance.	1	1	1		3
They did lose slightly more body fat - about one extra pound worth.	1	1	1		3
When the researchers broke down the results further, they found dairy products seemed to confer some benefit over the short term when they were part of a weight-loss diet.	1	2	1		3
But otherwise, adding more milk, yogurt and cheese didn't help people lose weight or keep it off, Hu and his colleagues reported in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.	1	1	2		3
Angelo Tremblay, an obesity researcher at Laval University in Quebec, Canada, said dairy products may still aid the weight-loss goals of people who aren't getting much milk or yogurt in their current diet.	2	2	1		3
"Many studies which are used to discuss the issue were performed in normal calcium consumers… and then it is not so much a surprise to see that there is no effect, or only a trivial effect," Tremblay, who wasn't involved in the new analysis, told Reuters Health.				i	3
"It is always the same story," he said.	2	1	1		3
"If you wish to measure the effect of physical activity, in an already very active individual or active individuals you have more chance not to see any effect."	2	1	1		3
Still, even in dairy-deficient people, adding a couple of extra milk or yogurt servings would only be expected to have a small impact on weight, Tremblay said.	2	1	1		3
The U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends teens and adults get three cups of low-fat or fat-free milk or yogurt per day.	2	1	1		3
According to guidelines, one cup of milk is also equivalent to one and a half ounces of natural cheese or two ounces of processed cheese.	1	1	1		3
But that has to be incorporated into a generally healthy and balanced diet, researchers said.	1	1	1		3
"The bottom line is still energy balance," Hu told Reuters Health.	2	1	1		3
For people hoping to control their weight, "I don't think it's a good idea to add dairy on top of their diet," he said.	3	1	2		3
"If their baseline dairy is low, if they want to increase their dairy consumption, they have to reduce something else," such as sugar-sweetened drinks or less-healthy protein sources like processed meat.	3	1	1		3
Making those healthier substitutions, Hu added, "may not have a direct benefit on body weight, but it certainly may have other health benefits."	3	2	1		3
SOURCE: http://bit.ly/P674Eq				i	3
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, online August 29, 2012.				i	3