Everything you need to know about the NFL referee lockout	3	1	1		4
It’s a professional referee’s job to ensure that games run smoothly, so it's perhaps no surprise that the absence of refs from this season's NFL games — thanks to contract disputes between the league and the referees' union — has led to almost unprecedented chaos.				i	4
After three weeks of controversial calls, which culminated in a game-changing decision in a matchup between the Seattle Seahawks and the Green Bay Packers on Monday, news outlets have reported that the referees and the NFL are close to signing a deal.	2	1	1		4
As the lockout approaches its end, it's worth looking back at how it began.	2	1	1		4
What is the dispute about?	1	1	1		4
Who should be blamed?	1	1	1		4
And what does it mean for the future of the football season?	1	1	1		4
Here, everything you need to know about the NFL's referee lockout:	3	1	1		4
What are the NFL and the referees fighting about?There are several areas of disagreement, but the biggest sticking point is money.	1	1	2		4
The referees want to stick with a pension plan that was originally negotiated in 2006; the NFL wants to implement a 401(k) plan instead.	1	1	1		4
The NFL's refusal to budge has puzzled many analysts because the cost differential between the pension and the 401(k) is relatively small: Roughly .33 percent of the league's annual $10 billion revenue, or $100,000 per team per season — a figure some commentators have called the equivalent of a "rounding error" for the NFL.				i	4
Who did the NFL hire to replace the locked-out referees?A group of less-experienced officials culled from smaller markets like the Arena Football League, Divisions II and III of the NCAA, and — in one particularly damning case — the Lingerie Football League (LFL), a far-from-professional league in which women play the game in bras and panties.				i	4
Fans and commentators have expressed both frustration with this solution and sympathy for the stand-in refs' inexperience.	1	1	2		4
What do the NFL players think?The vast majority have sided with the referees.	2	1	1		4
Many players have spoken of their exasperation in post-game interviews, or taken to Twitter, voicing complaints like "I thought I was watching Punk'd" and calling the use of replacements "a slap in the face."	2	1	2		4
What do sportswriters think?They're furious.	2	1	2		4
"The NFL used to be the Mona Lisa," says Rick Reilly at ESPN.com, rather grandly, and the referee's strike "is painting a mustache on it."	4	1	1		4
"This may not be the worst mistake a commissioner has made in my lifetime, but it is surely the dumbest," adds Michael Rosenberg at Sports Illustrated.	4	1	2		4
The general consensus: The NFL has seriously damaged its integrity, and put its players at risk, to save money that it would barely even notice was gone.	3	1	2		4
Has the lockout hurt the NFL?In reputation, yes; in revenue, no.	3	1	2		4
Despite widespread criticism from fans and players, neither viewership nor attendance has declined.	2	2	2		4
In fact, the debate over the Seahawks-Packers game has drawn much attention to the NFL, leading many analysts to conclude that NFL ratings will be up next weekend — if only due to perverse curiosity — which may be why the league hasn't seemed to be in a hurry to cut a deal.				i	4
Will the lockout really end soon?Reports are mixed.	1	1	1		4
According to ESPN.com, an "agreement in principle" is ready, and the remaining points of contention are minor enough that locked-out officials may even be on the field again by Sunday.	2	2	1		4
But the Los Angeles Times countered, quoting an inside source that says "a deal is not as close as has been reported."	2	1	1		4
SEE MORE: Peyton Manning's underwhelming Broncos debut: 4 talking points				i	4
View this article on TheWeek.com				i	4
Get 4 Free Issues of The Week				i	4
Other stories from this topic:				i	4