Mars Rover Finds Ancient Streambed Where Water Once Flowed	1	2	1		3
NASA's Mars rover Curiosity has discovered what appears to be an ancient streambed, suggesting that water once flowed in large volumes — perhaps hip-deep in places — across the Martian surface.	1	2	1		3
Photos from the Curiosity rover have revealed several different rocky outcrops that contain stones cemented into a layer of conglomerate rock.	1	2	1		3
Some of these stones are rounded and large, indicating that they were transported relatively long distances across the Red Planet surface by water.	1	1	1		3
This water flow was likely quite vigorous, perhaps akin to the flows produced by flash floods in desert areas here on Earth, researchers said.	1	1	1		3
"From the size of gravels it carried, we can interpret the water was moving about 3 feet per second, with a depth somewhere between ankle and hip deep," Curiosity co-investigator William Dietrich, of the University of California, Berkeley, said in a statement.	1	1	1		3
[The Search for Water on Mars (Photos)]				I	3
"Plenty of papers have been written about channels on Mars with many different hypotheses about the flows in them," Dietrich added.	1	1	1		3
"This is the first time we're actually seeing water-transported gravel on Mars.	1	2	1		3
This is a transition from speculation about the size of streambed material to direct observation of it."	1	2	1		3
The findings came after researchers studied photographs of three different outcrops inside Gale Crater, where Curiosity touched down on Aug. 5.	1	1	1		3
The first outcrop, known as Goulburn, lies a few feet from the rover's landing site.	1	1	1		3
Curiosity spotted the other two — called Link and Hottah — as it's been rambling toward an area called Glenelg, its first major science target.	1	1	1		3
Photos of Link really got the team thinking of long-ago stream flows, Curiosity chief scientist John Grotzinger, of Caltech in Pasadena, told reporters today (Sept.	1	2	1		3
27).				S	3
And images of Hottah, which juts from the Red Planet surface at an odd angle, pretty much sealed the deal.	2	2	1		3
"Hottah looks like someone jack-hammered up a slab of city sidewalk, but it's really a tilted block of an ancient streambed," Grotzinger said in a statement.	1	1	2		3
On Earth, tilted outcrops are usually the result of tectonic activity.	1	1	1		3
But Hottah could have been deformed by a nearby impact or other process, Grotzinger said.	1	1	1		3
The water on Mars likely flowed several billion years ago, researchers said, though an exact timeframe will be tough to determine.	1	1	1		3
But the extent of the system that produced the outcrops — and the surrounding alluvial fan and channels — suggests that it wasn't produced in a single shot.	1	1	1		3
Rather, water was likely flowing over a relatively long chunk of time, scientists said.	1	1	1		3
"I'm comfortable to argue that it's certainly beyond the thousand-year timescale, but we're still gathering data to go further with that," Dietrich told reporters today.	1	2	1		3
The team has not yet analyzed Link or Hottah with Curiosity's 10 different science instruments; rather, the researchers' conclusions are based on images of Mars snapped by the rover's Mast Camera.	1	1	1		3
But those pictures capture plenty of evidence, Grotzinger said.	1	2	1		3
"In some cases, when you do geology, a picture's worth a thousand words," he said.	1	2	1		3
The $2.5 billion Mars rover Curiosity is about 50 days into a roughly two-year mission to determine if the Gale Crater area has ever been capable of supporting microbial life.	1	2	2		3
Despite the outcrop discoveries, the six-wheeled robot's ultimate destination remains the base of Mount Sharp, a 3.4-mile-high (5.5 kilometers) mountain that rises from Gale's Center.	1	1	1		3
The mysterious mountain's foothills show signs of long-ago exposure to liquid water.	1	2	1		3
"A long-flowing stream can be a habitable environment," Grotzinger said.	1	2	1		3
"It is not our top choice as an environment for preservation of organics, though.	1	1	2		3
We're still going to Mount Sharp, but this is insurance that we have already found our first potentially habitable environment."	1	2	1		3
Follow SPACE.com				I	3
senior writer Mike Wall on Twitter @michaeldwall or SPACE.com				I	3
@Spacedotcom.				I	3
We're also on Facebook and Google+.				I	3