Norwegian mass killer's speech to hit German theatre	2	2	2		3
BERLIN (Reuters) - A Turkish-German actress will read out Norwegian mass-murderer Anders Behring Breivik's bizarre courtroom speech in German theatres next month in an effort to highlight the widespread prevalence of far-right ideology in Europe.	2	2	2		3
Swiss director Milo Rau adapted the script of "Breivik's Explanation" for the German stage from an audio recording of the hour-long speech the far-right nationalist gave in April before being sentenced by an Oslo court to 21 years in prison for killing 77 people last year.	2	2	2		3
Though Breivik's talk of an international underground of killers - latter-day Crusaders he called the Knights Templar - seemed to be mere fantasy, many of his beliefs are to be found within the fold of anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant populists.	2	1	3		3
"His ideological `manifesto' is a distilled representation of a cultural crisis that pervades the European continent and finds expression in an increasingly xenophobic populism," Kirsten Simonsen, a professor at Denmark's Roskilde University, wrote in "Bloodlands", a 2012 series of essays about Breivik.	1	1	2		3
Some notions touched on by Breivik in his justification for setting off a bomb in Oslo and shooting dozens of teenagers dead on an island retreat - that Europe and its indigenous cultures are being weakened by immigration and multiculturalism - have been helping reshape right-wing continental politics for years.	1	1	3		3
The theatre performances in Weimar and Berlin are intended to promote the view that while Breivik's actions were those of a madman, the ideology that drove him is shockingly widespread in democratic societies like Switzerland and Germany, the 35-year-old director told Reuters.	2	1	2		3
"It's merely a coincidence that Breivik was the one saying it," Rau said.	1	2	1		3
"His words could just as well have come from 60 percent of the Swiss population."	1	1	1		3
Citing the language of far-right Swiss nationalists who enjoy wide support in his country, Rau added that issues such as a referendum banning the construction of minarets in Switzerland exposed the parallels between Breivik's hate speech and the xenophobia in European society.	2	1	2		3
Breivik's words will merely be read rather than dramatised and there will be no courtroom scene, Rau said.	1	2	1		3
Turkish-German actress Sascha Soydan was chosen to distance the Breivik "character" and his actions from the ideology that drove him.	2	2	1		3
"It's not a good speech and it doesn't make for good theatre either," Rau said.	1	1	2		3
"I want to show a text and an ideology, I don't want to depict the person behind them - that's why I opted for this extremely unauthentic portrayal and very dry way of doing it."	1	2	1		3
Only snippets of Breivik's speech were ever made public during the proceedings in April because judges thought publishing it in its entirety would only provide Breivik with a platform for his xenophobic views.	1	1	2		3
"There's a reason the speech wasn't allowed to leave the courtroom - so that no one tinkers around with it and makes it seem better than it was," Rau said.	1	1	2		3
Performances are scheduled to take place in Weimar on October 19 and in Berlin on October 27.	1	1	1		3
A panel discussion will follow both performances.	1	1	1		3
(Reporting By Chris Cottrell)				I	3