Pentagon: Don't Tweet About the Former SEAL's Bin Laden Book	2	1	1		4
While the Pentagon is still mulling over , it is sure about one thing: it doesn't want any of its employees tweeting about that guy's best-selling book.	3	1	1		4
Today, the reports the Defense Department has issued guidelines on handling No Easy Day, the blow-by-blow memoir about the mission to kill Osama bin Laden and employees are prohibited from tweeting, Facebooking, or using their work email to discuss the book.				i	4
They are allowed, however, to purchase a copy of it—and they Pentagon doesn't even mind if they put on a bookshelf rather than, as Scarborough writes, "special containers for classified information."	3	1	1		4
Scaborough describes the four other rules as follows:	1	1	1		4
Workers “shall not discuss potentially classified and sensitive unclassified information with persons who do not have an official need to know and an appropriate security clearance.”	1	1	1		4
People with first-hand knowledge of the raid “shall not publicly speculate or discuss potentially classified or sensitive unclassified information outside official U.S. Government channels.”	1	1	1		4
And, finally, employees “are prohibited from using unclassified government computer systems to discuss potentially classified or sensitive contents of [No Easy Day], and must not engage in online discussions via social networking or media sites regarding potentially classified or sensitive unclassified information that may be contained in [No Easy Day].”				i	4
The crackdown on discussion about the book, which has been widely dissected in and an , summons the memory of materials: Things the public and the press already know a lot about, but the government has to pretend is top secret.	3	1	1		4
As reported last week, according to Publisher's Weekly the book sold 253,000 hard copies in its first week, a calculation that doesn't even include Walmart sales.	1	1	1		4
It's safe to say, if there's classified material in the book, the secret's out!	4	1	1		4