Psychopaths Have Poor Sense of Smell, Study Finds	1	1	2		4
New research suggests we may be able to sniff out psychopaths by their poor scores on a smell test.	2	2	2		4
In the study, psychologists at Macquarie University in Australia tested the noses of more than 70 college-age participants, all without criminal records.	1	1	1		4
The researchers had the subjects try to identify common odors (like orange, coffee and leather) and distinguish between different scents.	1	1	1		4
The participants then were given personality tests to check for their level of empathy and psychopathic tendencies.	1	1	1		4
For example, the subjects were asked to rate on a 5-point scale how much they agreed with statements such as: "I purposely flatter people to get them on my side;" "People sometimes say that I'm cold-hearted;" and "I have broken into a building or vehicle in order to steal something or vandalize."	1	1	1		4
Psycopathy is a personality disorder marked by superficial charm, a lack of empathy and impulsive tendencies.	1	1	2		4
The researchers reported a correlation between a poorer sense of smell and psychopathic personality traits.	1	2	2		4
They say this makes sense because previous research has shown that people with such traits have decreased function in the brain's frontal lobes, a region associated with impulse control and acting in accordance with social norms — and dysfunction in that part of the brain is associated with an impaired sense of smell.	1	1	1		4
Criminal psychopaths' speech patterns can also give them away, according to research presented in 2011.	1	2	1		4
When speaking of their crimes, psychopaths use less emotion and focus more on their basic needs than non-psychopaths, that research found.	1	1	2		4
Psychopaths, believed to make up as much as 1 percent of the general population, may attempt to fake answers during psychological evaluations, so a measure of smelling ability could offer a helpful new way to detect psychopathic traits, the researchers said.	2	2	2		4
The study, led by Mehmet K. Mahmut and Richard J. Stevenson, was published recently in the journal Chemosensory Perception.	1	1	1		4