Radvanovsky takes on Donizetti queen	1	2	1		4
WASHINGTON (AP) — Early in the second act of Donizetti's opera "Anna Bolena," the heroine confronts her lady-in-waiting Jane Seymour, who confesses that she will soon replace her as the wife of Henry VIII.	2	2	1		4
It's one of the great scenes in bel canto opera.	2	3	1		4
And as performed by soprano Sondra Radvanovsky and mezzo-soprano Sonia Ganassi at the Washington National Opera on Tuesday night, it exploded off the stage and sent sparks flying into the auditorium at the Kennedy Center.	4	4	1		4
It was the unmistakable high point of an evening that, despite a good deal of fine singing, otherwise never quite caught fire.	4	3	1		4
Part of the problem was the visually imposing but heavy-handed staging by Stephen Lawless, part of it the limp conducting by Antonello Allemandi.	2	2	1		4
And then there was Radvanovsky herself.	2	2	1		4
This prodigiously gifted American soprano remains something of a work in progress.	2	3	2		4
There was a lot to like in her first crack at this touchstone role, which the legendary Maria Callas restored to the modern repertory in 1957.	2	2	1		4
The basic quality of Radvanovsky's voice can be thrilling — a penetrating sound that is hard-edged without being harsh.	3	3	1		4
She unleashed astonishing power, especially at the top of her range (though she was not always able to scale back the volume when she should have).	3	2	1		4
But there were still traces of her tendency to sing flat, and some of her phrasing was rhythmically imprecise.	2	2	2		4
Dramatically, she has not yet found the emotional depth to portray the tragic queen as much more than the weepy victim of a conniving king.	3	1	2		4
The one exception came in the encounter with Ganassi, when the Italian mezzo's own intensity seemed to jump-start her performance.	3	3	1		4
Throughout the night, Ganassi used her ample, plummy voice to create an impassioned portrayal of a woman torn between her love for Henry and her pity for Anna.	3	3	1		4
American bass Owen Gradus made a handsome, swaggering Henry, binge-eating and drinking as he engineered the trap that would rid him of his unwanted wife.	3	2	2		4
He sang energetically, though his voice is a size too small for the role.	3	2	2		4
Georgian tenor Shalva Mukeria displayed a pleasant, slightly nasal sound and nailed his many high notes as Anna's beloved Percy.	3	2	1		4
British mezzo Claudia Huckle was impressive in the trousers role of the hapless page Smeton.	3	3	2		4
The production, created for the Dallas Opera, uses a single set by Benoit Dugardyn consisting of large wooden panels that surround the stage and take different configurations as scenes change.	2	1	1		4
Scenery is wheeled in or lowered from the flies.	1	1	1		4
Choristers appear on two tiers of balconies above the walls.	1	1	1		4
This allows for some striking tableaux as the figures overhead watch and comment on the action below.	1	1	1		4
But Lawless has a way of belaboring the obvious, including his overuse of Anna's daughter, the young girl who would become Queen Elizabeth — and figure prominently in two subsequent Donizetti operas.	2	1	2		4
The real Elizabeth was not yet 3 when Anna died and has no role in the opera as written.	2	2	2		4
Played here as a girl of about 10, she is dragged into numerous scenes to witness her mother's degradation, even watching as Anna puts her head on the chopping block at the end.	3	2	2		4
In a program note, Lawless speculates this may be why Elizabeth never married!	2	2	2		4
There were other miscues, like the pantomime during the overture that showed Henry shedding one wife for the next, played incongruously for laughs.	3	3	2		4
And it was a mistake to drop a large grill with prison bars during Anna's final scene, obscuring our view of her just when we should be focusing our eyes on nothing else.	2	1	2		4
The production, which opened the company's season Saturday night, runs for six more performances through Oct. 6.	1	1	1		4
For Radvanovsky, it's a warm-up for an even more demanding assignment: In coming seasons she will repeat the role at the Metropolitan Opera and will add the heroines of Donizetti's two other "queen" operas — "Maria Stuarda" and "Roberto Devereaux."	2	2	1		4