See Annie Star Aileen Quinn All Grown Up!	2	2	1		
It's been 30 years since Aileen Quinn won over the world's heart playing the title role in the big screen version of "Annie."	4	3	1		
The 41-year-old actress stopped by Access Hollywood Live on Tuesday to help celebrate the movie's 30th anniversary Blu-ray release.	1	2	1		
PLAY IT NOW: Annie Sing-Along: Access Hollywood Live Guests Break Into Song				I	
At just 9 years old, Aileen beat out 8,000 other little girls hoping to land the role.	3	3	1		
"It was over about a year period and they just kept dwindling it down and down and down until it became nine and then the screen test with Albert Finney [brought us ] down to three," she told Billy Bush and Kit Hoover, recalling the tough process of the landing the role of the plucky redheaded orphan.	2	1	2		
VIEW THE PHOTOS: Access Top 10: Hottest ‘80s Reboots				I	
"What a great actor to work with," she said of Albert, who played Daddy Warbucks.	2	3	1		
Aileen - who had starred in the chorus of the Broadway musical of "Annie" - said she didn't have one of Annie's trademark features.	1	1	2		
"I'm not [a redhead.] I've gone lighter in California with the sunshine. I'm a brunette," she explained.	1	1	1		
VIEW THE PHOTOS: Former Child Stars				I	
During Aileen's audition process she and her mother were both convinced that the part was going to another young actress.	1	1	1		
"I thought I lost the part the day that I actually got it," she told Billy and Kit, recalling a meeting with director John Huston. "He asked me questions about my family and my life... [and]I left the audition and my mom said, 'Well, let's go get some McDonald's or Burger King. You lost that one.' That was the day he said he knew [I was right for the role after] talking to me."	1	2	2		
VIEW THE PHOTOS: 80’s Film Flashback				I	
"He was looking for a strength, but also an innocence," she said of the director.	1	1	1		
The actress credits her parents for keeping her grounded at the height of her stardom.	2	2	1		
"Luckily I've had really good parenting. I'm very fortunate that both my parents were very normal, very down to earth," she explained. "So when I came back from filming, I still had to do my chores, still had to do the dishes and everything else."	3	3	1		
Aileen went on to study at Drew University and is now a professor. She also starred in the national Broadway tour of "Fiddler on the Roof" in 1994.	1	1	1		
"Annie" 30th anniversary Blu-ray is in stores now.				I	
-- Jesse Spero				I	
Copyright 2012 by NBC Universal, Inc. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.				I	