Shuttle to sightsee around Calif with low flyovers	1	1	1		
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Space shuttle Endeavour will spend its last flying day Friday not rocketing into space, but doing what most tourists do when visiting California: Taking in the state Capitol, Golden Gate Bridge and the Hollywood Sign.	2	1	1		
In what promises to be a crowd-rousing air show, Endeavour, strapped atop a 747 jumbo jet, will take off after sunrise from Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert and dip low over various landmarks in a 4 1/2-hour sightseeing flight before landing at the Los Angeles International Airport.	3	1	1		
It's Endeavour's last aerial hurrah before it spends its retirement years as a museum piece.	3	2	1		
"We're so excited to be welcoming Endeavour home in grand style with these flyovers," said Jeffrey Rudolph, president of the California Science Center, where the shuttle will go on permanent display.	2	3	1		
Since Endeavour will buzz by some of the Golden State's most iconic sights, law enforcement and transportation authorities warned motorists not to "gawk and drive."	2	2	1		
"We want people to take in this majestic show," Los Angeles police Cmdr.	3	1	1	S	
Scott Kroeber said earlier this week.	1	1	1	S	
"But if you're driving, please drive and don't try to take in the show simultaneously."	3	1	1		
Extra officers will be on duty along the freeways near LAX to make sure traffic flows smoothly as the shuttle zooms overhead.	1	1	1		
Endeavour returned to its birthplace Thursday after an emotional cross-country ferry flight that made a special flyover of Tucson, Ariz., to honor its last commander, Mark Kelly and his wife, former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.	2	2	1		
Giffords, who is recovering from a gunshot wound to the head, was "hooting and hollering" as Endeavour looped around her hometown, according to her former aide C.J. Karamargin.	3	2	2		
NASA's shuttle fleet, which retired last year after three decades of flight, was assembled in Palmdale near Edwards Air Force Base.	1	1	1		
The military outpost 100 miles north of Los Angeles served as the original shuttle landing strip and remained a backup site in case of stormy weather at Cape Canaveral, Fla.	1	1	1		
The youngest shuttle, Endeavour replaced Challenger, which blew up during liftoff in 1986.	1	1	2		
NASA lost another shuttle, Columbia, in 2003 when it disintegrated during re-entry.	1	1	2		
Fourteen astronauts were killed.	1	1	4		
During 25 missions, Endeavour spent 299 days in space and orbited Earth nearly 4,700 times, racking up 123 million miles.	1	1	1		
On its maiden flight in 1992, a trio of spacewalking astronauts grabbed a stranded communications satellite in for repair.	1	1	1		
It also flew the first repair mission to the Hubble Space Telescope to fix a faulty mirror.	1	1	1		
But most of its flights ferried cargo and equipment to the International Space Station, which is near completion.	1	1	1		
Under White House orders to explore beyond low-Earth orbit, NASA is hitching rides on Russian rockets to the orbiting laboratory until private companies can provide regular service.	1	1	1		
Endeavour is the second of three remaining shuttles to head to its retirement home.	1	1	1		
In April, Discovery arrived at the Smithsonian Institution's hangar in Virginia.	1	1	1		
Atlantis, which closed out the shuttle program, will stay in Florida where it will be towed a short distance to the Kennedy Space Center's visitor center in the fall.	1	1	1		
Endeavour will remain at an airport hangar for several weeks as crews ready the shuttle for its own road trip.	1	1	1		
Unlike Atlantis, it will creep through city streets to the California Science Center near downtown.	1	1	1		
Some 400 trees will be cleared along the 12-mile route to make room, a move that has riled some residents in affected neighborhoods.	1	1	2		
Museum officials have pledged to replant double the number of chopped trees.	1	1	1		
___				I	
Online:				I	
Shuttle history: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/shuttle				I	
California Science Center: http://www.californiasciencecenter.org				I	
___				I	
Alicia Chang can be followed at http://twitter.com/SciWriAlicia				I	