Twitter Goes Bonkers After NFL Game's Unbelievable Ending	2	1	1		4
Yes, that's the real Samuel L. Jackson, and this is his opinion.	2	1	1		4
Click here to view this gallery.				I	4
[More from Mashable: On Facebook, NFL Can’t Decide What to Do About Controversial Ending]				I	4
A star San Francisco 49er's name trending worldwide thanks to an apparently fake Twitter account spewing vitriol.	1	1	1		4
Tidal waves of tweeted hate dumping on NFL commissioner Roger Goodell.	1	1	2		4
Fans flexing wit in snarky messages.	2	1	2		4
Players sharing uncharacteristically candid thoughts.	2	1	1		4
These were just a few of the ways in which the sports Twittersphere blew up as seldom seen on Monday following the Green Bay Packers loss to the Seattle Seahawks.	2	1	2		4
Twitter was so frothy because the game ended in seemingly unfathomable fashion and ignited long simmering tension between fans, players and the league about a labor standoff between the NFL and its regular officials' union.	2	1	2		4
[More from Mashable: NFL Player Blasts Replacement Refs on Twitter, Then Ridicules Fans]				I	4
To recap, here's what happened:	1	1	1		4
The Packers lost to the Seahawks in Monday Night Football on a last-second hail-mary pass by Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson — a pass that was actually intercepted and let stand as a touchdown after the NFL’s replacement officials had what can only be described as a refereeing fiasco.	1	1	2		4
Initially, one ref signalled touchdown and another touchback, meaning he thought it was an interception.	1	1	1		4
After a review, the call (the one that was a touchdown) stood, and eventually the game ended.	1	1	1		4
Why were the refs replacements?	1	1	1		4
That labor dispute, which has resulted in referees from the lowest rungs of organized football overseeing the NFL preseason and first three weeks of the regular season.	2	1	1		4
Immediately after the game, Twitter flew into a frenzy.	2	1	1		4
Click through the gallery above to see some of the best tweets from fans, players and other personalities.				I	4
This story originally published on Mashable here.				I	4