U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice: Twitter Crucial to Her Mission	1	1	1		
How do you responsibly conduct foreign policy with a haiku?	1	1	1	i	
[More from Mashable: ShoutAbout Aims to Inspire Social Action Based on News Stories]					
That's what Susan Rice felt was the challenge when first introduced to Twitter.	1	1	1		
The United States Ambassador to the United Nations was a self-proclaimed "skeptic" of the power of social media.	1	1	1		
"I thought it might cheapen the coin," Rice said at this year's Social Good Summit while speaking with Mashable CEO Pete Cashmore.	3	1	1		
[More from Mashable: Social Good Summit Day 1: Highlights and Pics]				i	
But Rice said she quickly changed her tune, realizing that Twitter and other social media outlets provide the tools and machinery to make everyone more aware of global issues, to bring great visibility to important issues in places that can't be seen and engage people that are often overlooked in conversation.				i	
And most importantly, Rice felt that the immediacy and briefness of tweets forced her and her colleagues to "distill messages to their very essence," and forgo political doublespeak.	3	2	1		
Now an avid Twitter user (as well as YouTube andFacebook), Rice says she uses her following to establish causes and bring change.	2	2	1		
Recently she reached out to the women of Libya via social media, encouraging them to register to vote and have their voices heard in the election.	1	2	1		
She even admits to calling out "bad guys" and dictators on Twitter for their reprehensible behavior.	2	1	2		
Rice, appointed by President Obama, also spoke about the administration's focus on using technology to make accountability and transparency a two-way street between the public and elected officials.	1	2	2		
Initiatives like Data.gov, she says, have given power to the people in understanding how the government works and how it can be more innovative in problem-solving.	3	2	1		
She also recalled the Syrian ambassador's effort to keep citizens informed by posting messages to Facebook about the location of Syrian tanks.	2	1	1		
This type of real-time updating would have been impossible without social media, said Rice.	2	1	1		
"When it comes to foreign policy -- this is not the most necessarily modern and agile aspect, traditionally, of American government, but under President Obama and Secretary Clinton, the State Department has harnessed social media to be a much more effective tool of our outreach," Rice said.				i	
But Rice stays somewhat realistic about the ability for social media to mobilize people to a point of making government obsolete.	1	1	1		
It's important to remember social media is a tool, not a solution, she said, adding social media provides limitations in space and remains inaccessible in certain areas of the world that need it most, such as Zimbabwe.	2	1	1		
Further, social media can be harnessed in negative ways, Rice said.	3	1	2		
Cashmore agreed.	1	1	1		
"The tech itself is neutral, it's what you do with it that counts," he said.	3	1	1		
The government will remain a central "part of the puzzle" in the fight for change, Rice said.	2	1	1		
She added that infrastructure, public education, and research and development are mainly responsibilities of the government, not of social media.	2	1	1		
Has social media helped you feel more connected to global politics and issues?	1	1	1		
Tell us how so in the comments below.	1	1	1		
[wp_scm_sgs_2012]				i	
This story originally published on Mashable here.				i	