account_id	post_id	Category	Page	Post URL	news article	Date Published	Post Type	Rating	Debate	share_count	reaction_count	comment_count1.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035269309904628	"With the Hillary Clinton-Donald Trump debates upon us  the quadrennial question comes begging: Do these showdowns matter? The chances for impact seem ripe this year. The two most unpopular major-party candidates in the history of ABC News/Washington Post polls are facing off. Donald Trump's unorthodox campaign style and provocative positions have piqued public interest; the debates may be the single best opportunity for him to allay concerns about his qualifications  temperament and policy promises alike. Hillary Clinton  for her part  needs -_ like Trump -_ to ease questions about her trustworthiness  as well as to spark greater enthusiasm among her supporters. Can either candidate move the needle? It will be tough: A review of data since 1960 suggests that past debates have almost never directly and measurably changed the candidates' relative standings. That's admittedly a high standard  though  and at least some debates may have had more subtle impacts. Debates have been held in 11 presidential races since 1960. We find just one after which the lead in presidential preference changed hands by a significant margin: In 1980  when Ronald Reagan uttered his ""are you better off?"" line. He gained 7 points in a post-debate poll. Still  there are other cases in which debates (or post-debate evaluations) may have influenced campaign dynamics. Debates are  after all  an essential window on the candidatesÕ styles and grasp of the issues. They can seem to add or reverse momentum. And polls are only so precise. Consider 1960: After Richard NixonÕs pasty-faced performance  John F. Kennedy went from 46 percent support to 49 percent in Gallup data; Nixon  from 47 percent to 46 percent. Those changes were within the polls' margin of sampling error. Nonetheless  the numerical ""lead"" switched  and collective memory maintains that the debates spelled Nixon's narrow defeat. Nor did Gallup polls show significant movement immediately after the 1976 debate in which Gerald Ford said Poland was free (and news reports pounced on the misstatement); Jimmy Carter gained a single point  Ford lost 3. Still  even if not measurably  the gaffe may have halted what had been a slide in Carter's lead. Then 73-year-old Reagan's teasing jibe in 1984 about 56-year-old Walter Mondale's ""youth and inexperience"" didn't meaningfully change the numbers in ABC News/Washington Post polls  but perhaps helped put aside questions about Reagan's age and acuity. In 2000  Al Gore's wonk-heavy performance saw him go in at +2 and leave at -3  but again  that was within sampling error. There's also the question of missed opportunities  as in Mike Dukakis' bloodless answer  in 1988  to what he'd do if his wife were raped and murdered. He didn't seize on the chance to show a non-technocratic side. And ABC/Post polls did not meaningfully move. ABC News/Washington Post polls in 1996  2004  2008 and 2012 also showed no significant movement around the debates. In 1992 there was more movement  including a significant gain for Ross Perot  but never enough to change Bill ClintonÕs advantage. In instant reactions  at least  polling has found that debates typically reinforce preconceived notions rather than change them. Most of each candidates' supporters say it's their candidate who won  and precious few say their minds were changed. But post-debate evaluations can shift. In 1992  right after the first debate  24 percent of viewers said Perot had won. By the next night  amid positive reviews of Perot's performance  that grew to 37 percent among people who'd watched  heard or read about it. And Perot's support did advance  from 6 percent before the debates to 17 percent after them. That shift may have been real  but it also may have reflected the challenges of immediate post-debate reaction polls. Conducted in mere minutes  among individuals pre-recruited to participate  they're subject to considerable sampling and weighting limitations. Further  some ask who ""won "" others who ""did the better job""; some accept ""tie"" as an answer and some don't. Instant reactions also bypass the role of considered judgment. Hard as it may be to believe in the Twitter Age  sometimes people actually need a little while to think about things. The clearest response to the debates this year may take some days to emerge. Rundown Here's a rundown of the measurable debate effect (or lack thereof) in each election since 1960. There were no debates in 1964  1968 or 1972. Click here for data tables associated with each election. 1960: Gallup had Nixon +1  but that was 12 days before the first debate; it had Kennedy +3 after it. Twelve days is a long time and 4 points is a small number. Gallup didn't poll between the remaining three debates  but showed Kennedy +4 after the last one. 1976: News reports jumped on Ford's misstatement of Soviet domination of Eastern Europe in the second debate. Carter's lead had been diminishing  and that did stop after this debate. But the measured change after the second debate was tiny -- Carter gained 1 point  Ford lost 3. 1980: This one looks to have mattered: Gallup's pre-debate poll had Carter +8; post-debate  Reagan +3. (John Anderson did not participate.) 1984: Mondale crept up  but Reagan stayed ahead by double digits nonetheless. 1988: We don't have an ABC poll done right before the first debate; in a Gallup poll it was George H. W. Bush +8. Our poll after the second debate showed no meaningful movement. 1992: Perot moved up 5 points in ABC News polling after the first debate and 4 points after the third debate. Before the debates he had 6 percent support; after the last debate he was up to 17 percent. Clinton moved up by 5 points after the second debate  Bush down by 6  then Clinton down by 6 after the third. But Clinton led throughout. 1996: The race looked perhaps slightly tighter after the second debate  but Clinton maintained a double-digit lead throughout. 2000: Gore went in +2 and came out -3 -_ a change of lead  but within sampling error. And a week after the last debate it was back to a dead heat  47-47 percent. 2004: There were some wiggles in the debate period _- a 6-point lead for George W. Bush before the first debate was a dead heat before the third -_ but when all was said and done the race after the debates looked a lot like the race before them. 2008: The main shift in vote preference came before the first debate  as Obama seized the reins of economic discontent after the failure of Lehman Brothers in mid-September. McCain's +2 in early September  just after the GOP convention  proved to be his best. The race shifted to Obama +9 in an ABC/Post poll completed Sept. 22  four days before the first debate. Obama never trailed again. 2012: Obama was +2 ahead of the first debate in ABC/Post polls  within the margin of sampling error  +3 after the second debate and -1 after the final debate  all within sampling error."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		1	33	341.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035305953234297	"As police today captured the man wanted for questioning in connection to a series of explosive devices in New York City and New Jersey, new information about him has begun to emerge. The man, Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, was born in 1988 in Afghanistan and is a naturalized U.S. citizen, according to the FBI. He was discovered and captured in Linden, New Jersey, not far from his last known address in Elizabeth.  PHOTO: Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.New Jersey State Police Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation. Bombing Suspect Rahami Was Found Sleeping in the Hallway of a Bar WATCH: Police Officer Reveals How Bombing Suspect Was Taken Into Custody A U.S. official initially told ABC News Rahami came to the U.S. in 2000, but his father later said the family came over in 1995. Court records indicate Ahmad Rahami was from a large family and may have as many as seven siblings.  Former classmates said he attended Edison High School in New Jersey.  One of them, Chris Konya, said Rahami was quiet but funny and a ""pretty normal guy."" Konya and another former classmate said Rahami had a child with his high school girlfriend.  Rahami was enrolled at Middlesex County College from fall of 2010 to fall of 2012, where he worked toward an associate's degree in criminal justice but did not graduate, according to school officials.  PHOTO: Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.New Jersey State Police Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation. The Rahami family owned a fried chicken restaurant in Elizabeth. An employee and a recent customer said Rahami worked there.  ""I come in here every week or two, just to get something to eat,"" local resident Ryan McCann told The Associated Press. ""He's always in there. He's a very friendly guy. That's what's so scary. It's hard when it's home.""  Members of the Rahami family apparently did not get along well with the local police and sued several officers in 2011 for allegedly harassing them over purported violations related the restaurant's operation. The case was dismissed in 2012, pending the resolution of a related legal matter, according to documents.  Investigators are poring over Rahami's past travel, including what may have been a recent nearly year-long trip in which he flew to Quetta, Pakistan in April 2013 and returned to the U.S. through the United Arab Emirates in March 2014, according to the U.S. official. Rahami reported to authorities that he was visiting his wife and family, who he said were Afghan refugees living in Quetta, and that he had traveled by car between Pakistan and Afghanistan.  PHOTO: Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.New Jersey State Police Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation. In August 2014 Rahami was arrested after allegedly stabbing someone in the leg, according to court documents. A complaint filed by a police officer said the officer ""has reason to believe that the person is a danger to himself, others or property,"" but Rahami was not indicted.  Today Rahami was shot at least once by police during an exchange of gunfire before he was captured and then taken to a local hospital, authorities said. He is not cooperating with investigators, even so far as refusing to give his name, according to a source briefed on the case. Officials said they have not determined a motive for the attacks.  Late Monday officials announced charges against Rahami related to the shootout with police: five counts of attempted murder, second-degree unlawful possession of a weapon and second-degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose. Bail has been set at $5.2 million. It is unclear if Rahami has an attorney.  A senior Afghan official told ABC News the Afghan government is ready to assist the U.S. in any way it can and is searching for any information it may have on Rahami."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		34	63	271.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035322636565962	"One day after explosive devices were discovered in the Manhattan neighborhood of Chelsea and in Seaside Park and Elizabeth in New Jersey, Republican nominee Donald Trump repeated his calls to implement police profiling to stop more attacks in the United States.  ""Our local police, they know who a lot of these people are. They are afraid to do anything about it because they don't want to be accused of profiling and they don't want to be accused of all sorts of things,"" Trump said on ""Fox and Friends"" when asked what policies he would implement as president to ""get tough"" on terrorism.  He argued that the country had no other choice but to follow the lead of Israel.  ""Israel has done an unbelievable job, and they will profile. They profile. They see somebody that's suspicious,"" he said, ""they will profile. They will take that person in and check out. Do we have a choice? Look what's going on. Do we really have a choice? We're trying to be so politically correct in our country, and this is only going to get worse.""  Trump previously made similar comments. After the Orlando nightclub shooting in June, he said in an interview on ""Face the Nation"" that it was something the U.S. needed to seriously consider."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		35	170	861.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035366579894901	"Ahmad Khan Rahami, earlier named a person of interest in the weekend explosions in New York City and New Jersey, has been charged with five counts of attempted murder of a law enforcement officer. He is also charged with second-degree unlawful possession of a weapon and second-degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose.  Rahami was taken into custody and hospitalized this morning after a shootout with police in Linden, New Jersey, the Union County acting prosecutor said today. He has been ""directly linked"" to the devices used in the New York and New Jersey explosions on Saturday, FBI official Bill Sweeney said. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said this afternoon there is ""every reason to believe this was an act of terror.""  But there is ""no indication that there is a cell operating in the area or in the city,"" Sweeney said, adding that ""the investigation is ongoing.""  ""We will continue to conduct investigative activity to ensure we completely understand Rahami's social network,"" Sweeney said. ""For that reason, I do not plan to answer specific questions about our techniques, or our knowledge of the devices.""  Rahami was taken into custody in Linden, about 4 miles south of Elizabeth, after being injured in the altercation, during which a responding officer was shot in his bulletproof vest and second officer was injured.  PHOTO: Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, has been charged with five counts of attempted murder of a law enforcement officer after an exchange of gunfire with police, Sept. 19, 2016. Union County Prosecutor’s Office Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, has been charged with five counts of attempted murder of a law enforcement officer after an exchange of gunfire with police, Sept. 19, 2016. more + Rahami was taken to a hospital in Newark, where he is undergoing surgery, said Grace Park, the Union County acting prosecutor. The extent of his injuries was not immediately clear.  The confrontation happened at about 10:30 a.m., when an owner of a Linden bar reported that someone was sleeping in a hallway of his establishment, Linden Mayor Derek Armstead told ABC New York station WABC.  The bar owner, Harry Bains, told ABC station WABC in an exclusive interview that ""it was my gut reaction"" to call the police.  Armstead said, ""One of our police officers went to investigate and to wake him up and realized that he was [Rahami], the suspect that had been being sought in the bombings.""  ""He realized it was the suspect, and within moments, the suspect fired on him,"" Armstead said. ""And thank God that he had his vest on. And I think that was very helpful for him. I think that saved his life.""  PHOTO: Pictured is Ahmad Khan Rahami in Linden, NJ , Sept. 19. 2016.Ed Murray/NJ Advance Media for NJ.com Pictured is Ahmad Khan Rahami in Linden, NJ , Sept. 19. 2016. President Barack Obama said this afternoon that he spoke on the phone with the officers who apprehended Rahami.  ""They are going to be fine, they sustained some modest injuries but ones that they’ll rapidly recover from,"" Obama said. ""They were in good spirits and I communicated to them of how appreciative the American people are.""  A source briefed on the investigation said agents are searching for other people they want to talk to and that the investigation is not over.  An alert sent shortly before 8 a.m. today said police were seeking a man in connection with the Saturday night bombing in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood -- identified by authorities as Rahami, 28. He is believed to be the man seen in surveillance video at both the scene of the explosion on West 23rd Street and on West 27th Street, where the unexploded device was found, a police source said.  PHOTO: Law enforcement officers mark evidence near the site where Ahmad Khan Rahami, sought in connection with a bombing in New York, was taken into custody in Linden, New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016. Eduardo Munoz/Reuters Law enforcement officers mark evidence near the site where Ahmad Khan Rahami, sought in connection with a bombing in New York, was taken into custody in Linden, New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016. more + His last known address was in Elizabeth, New Jersey. The address of a home searched by FBI agents in Elizabeth this morning is linked to a person with a similar name. Rahami is a U.S. citizen of Afghan descent.  PHOTO: Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.New Jersey State Police Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.more + Explosion That Injured at Least 29 an 'Intentional Act,' NYC Mayor Says Surveillance Video Shows Moment of New York City Explosion PHOTOS: Multiple Bombs Discovered in New York and New Jersey Sources said authorities believe the three bombs -- one exploding in an oceanfront town on the New Jersey shore, one in Manhattan and another in Elizabeth, a town bordering Newark International Airport, just beyond New York City's borders -- are related.  Sweeney said today the explosion in Elizabeth is still under investigation.  PHOTO: Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation. NYPD Law enforcement circulated this image, purportedly of Ahmad Khan Rahami, who is wanted for questioning in the Manhattan explosion investigation.more + The explosions did not cause any fatalities, but the Chelsea explosion injured 29 people.  The incident have put residents, police and other security personnel on high alert. De Blasio, on ""Good Morning America"" today, praised the NYPD's response to the threat and said the department has ""the largest anti-terror force of any police force in the country.""  The latest incident was Sunday night in Elizabeth, about 15 miles southwest of the Chelsea neighborhood in Manhattan. Police recovered five possible homemade pipe bombs in a backpack, and one device exploded early today as a police robot attempted to disarm it. The FBI's Newark office tweeted that its bomb technicians had responded to the scene, along with investigators from Union County and the State Police of New Jersey. No one was injured.  ABC NEWS New York City and New Jersey Bombings The Manhattan blast took place on West 23rd Street around 8:30 p.m. Saturday and injured 29 people. All the injured have been released from hospitals, Mayor de Blasio said.    Follow  Terri @TerriRestaurant Our video from @TerriRestaurant at 60 W23 in case it's helpful, @NYPDnews @NYPDCT Has sound. #ChelseaExplosion #nyc 1:23 PM - 18 Sep 2016   54 54 Retweets   51 51 likes New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo told reporters Sunday night there was no evidence of international involvement.  But he said today he considers the explosion an act of terrorism. ""I believe it was an act of terrorism,"" he said. ""I believe you set off a bomb and you try to set off a second bomb, that is an appearance of trying to intimidate New Yorkers.""  He added, ""Yesterday there was no hint of any connection to foreigner terrorism.""  ""No group had taken accountability. No group had put out a statement. It was very early in the investigation. It still is early. But there may very well turn out to be a link to foreign terrorist organizations,"" he said. ""We will find that out today or in the coming days.""  PHOTO: An explosive device detonates as a team of bomb technicians tries to disarm it in Elizabeth, New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016.Andres Bayona An explosive device detonates as a team of bomb technicians tries to disarm it in Elizabeth, New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016. PHOTO: Members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation carry on investigations at the scene of Saturdays explosion on West 23rd Street and Sixth Avenue in Manhattans Chelsea neighborhood, New York, Sept. 18, 2016.Andres Kudacki/AP Photo Members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation carry on investigations at the scene of Saturday's explosion on West 23rd Street and Sixth Avenue in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, New York, Sept. 18, 2016.more + New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez called the incidents ""clearly an act of terrorism.""  In the search after the Chelsea explosion, officials found a possible second device on 27th Street, said James O'Neill, the city's police commissioner. The second device, described as a pressure cooker, was removed and did not explode.  The first incident of the weekend was Saturday morning, when an apparent improvised explosive device was set off in Seaside Park, New Jersey, a beach town about 90 miles south of New York City.  The device went off along the route of a planned 5K charity race to benefit U.S. Marines and sailors. Because of delays with the start of the run, the explosion occurred before many people were nearby.  PHOTO: Police officers look for suspicious packages along Fifth Avenue near the scene of an explosion on West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattans Chelsea neighborhood, in New York, Sept. 18, 2016.Andres Kudacki/AP Photo Police officers look for suspicious packages along Fifth Avenue near the scene of an explosion on West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, in New York, Sept. 18, 2016.more + Officials announced late Sunday night the detention of up to five individuals in connection with Saturday night's explosion in Chelsea. No charges were made, and the individuals are no longer in custody, the FBI's Sweeney said today.  ""I'm not going to discuss what they could face in the potential future,"" he said.  As the investigations continue, officials in New York City are preparing to host heads of government from around the world at the annual United Nations General Assembly this week in Manhattan. President Obama is among the speakers.  ABC News' J.J. Gallagher and Michael Edison Hayden contributed to this report."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		23	28	211.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035430716555154	"Donald Trump's surrogates and leading supporters on Sunday were pushing a narrative that the Republican candidate started two days earlier when he declared that Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign ""started the birther controversy,"" meaning the false notion that President Obama was born outside the United States.  On CBS News’ Face the Nation on Sunday, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway pushed the claim that so-called ""birtherism"" began with the Clinton 2008 campaign by invoking the words of former Clinton campaign manager Patti Sollis Doyle.  “Even Patti Solis Doyle, who was Hillary Clinton's campaign manager in 2008 ... until she was fired by Hillary Clinton, admitted on Friday ... that she said, yes, these are her words: There was a volunteer in Iowa who was pushing this,” Conway said.  Sollis Doyle, in an interview on CNN, said a volunteer coordinator had forwarded an email promoting the birther conspiracy. But she said that person was immediately fired and that the birther conspiracy theory was never promoted by Clinton herself.  Fact-Checking Trump's Claim Clinton Started 'Birther' Movement 67 Times Donald Trump Tweeted About the 'Birther' Movement Conway also mentioned a memo circulated by Mark Penn when he was chief strategist for Clinton’s 2008 campaign that talked about Obama’s lack of American roots.  Penn wrote a memo in 2007 saying that Obama’s foreign background could present a weakness for him and that Clinton should emphasize her middle-class Midwestern upbringing.  ""His roots to American values and culture are at best limited,"" the memo says. ""I cannot imagine America electing a president during a time of war who is not at his center fundamentally American in his thinking and values.""  But it does not say that Obama was foreign-born.  New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a prominent Trump supporter, also invoked Sollis Doyle’s comments and then downplayed Trump's role in promoting the idea that Obama wasn't born in the U.S.  ""It's not true that he kept it up for five years,” Christie said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “It wasn't like he was talking about it on a regular basis.""  Similarly, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus in an interview on ""Face the Nation"" said he thinks the ""birther"" movement ""was something that got started in the 2008 presidential campaign ... By the preponderance of evidence before us, Hillary Clinton, or her campaign, were definitely involved in this issue.""  Trump himself gave a short statement on Friday morning, at an event under the glittering chandeliers of his newest hotel, in an attempt to reverse his long-held assertion that there is uncertainty surrounding the location of President Obama's birth.  “Hillary Clinton and her campaign of 2008 started the birther controversy. I finished it. I finished it. You know what I mean. President Barack Obama was born in the United States, period,” the Republican presidential nominee said.  Trump's statement Friday came just a day after he refused to acknowledge to the Washington Post that Obama was born in the U.S. And for years, Trump had helped perpetuate conspiracy theories about whether the first black president is wholly American and in fact born in Hawaii -- as his public birth certificate says, an attack many, including Clinton, have said is racially charged.  In an August 2013 interview with ABC News' Jon Karl, for example, Trump stood behind his push to reveal Obama's ""true birth status.""  Karl asked, ""You don't acknowledge that you went overboard on this whole birther stuff?""  Trump replied, ""Actually, I think it made me very popular, if you want to know the truth, OK? So I do think I know what I'm doing."""	9/19/16	link	mostly true		7	62	641.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035489746549251	"On Sunday, warplanes targeted the besieged Syrian city for the first time since the cease-fire went into effect last week, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  The 52-year-old woman died after a wall fell on her after airstrikes on her house, according to Abu Rajab, a radiologist and managing director of the hospital where she was treated in Aleppo's al-Sakhur neighborhood.  ""She had a head injury and suffered suffocation,"" Abu Rajab, told ABC News.  Four children were also treated at the hospital, he said. Among them was a 15-year-old girl who had pieces of shrapnel in her chest.  ""She was experiencing severe pain and is still under observation at the hospital,"" Abu Rajab said.  Another child, a 3-year-old girl, was injured in the scalp and right hand.  ""We give children gifts to help them relax. I gave her a toy train so that she could play with it and forget her pain,"" Abu Rajab said, adding that the girl remains in the hospital.  Two other children, a 3-year-old and a 2-year-old, were treated at the hospital and have been discharged, according to Abu Rajab.  ""They had lighter wounds and stayed for one day,"" he said. ""They had dust in their lungs and we gave them oxygen.""  The U.S.-Russian-brokered cease-fire agreement was focused on reducing violence in the war-torn region and delivering humanitarian aid. The agreement had to be met before Russia and the U.S. would work together to fight militant groups ISIS and al-Nusra in Syria.  So far no aid has entered eastern Aleppo, where up to 275,000 people live under siege, according to the United Nations. Two U.N. trucks carrying flour and food supplies that could feed around 185,000 people for one month are still parked by the Turkish border, ready to go.  ""I am pained and disappointed that a United Nations convoy has yet to cross into Syria from Turkey, and safely reach eastern Aleppo, where up to 275,000 people remain trapped without food, water, proper shelter or medical care,"" Stephen O’Brien, U.N.'s undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator, said in a statement today. ""All parties must facilitate regular and sustained access to families in all the besieged and hard-to-reach areas across the country, through both cross-line and cross-border routes. The people of Syria have suffered long enough. Millions of Syrian civilians continue to face horrific deprivation and violence, especially those trapped in besieged and hard-to-reach areas.""  Aid workers have not been able to reach eastern Aleppo since clashes between the Syrian government and armed rebel groups started on July 7.  Around 13.5 million people in Syria are in need of humanitarian assistance, while 4.8 million have fled their country and 6.1 million are internally displaced, according to this month's figures from the U.N.'s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs."	9/19/16	link	mostly true			10	01.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035592746538951	"Ivanka Trump now has her own Secret Service protection, sources familiar with the matter tell ABC News.  Before now, Trump's adult children only received protection while physically near the candidate. But Ivanka Trump will now receive Secret Service protection assigned to her directly. Earlier this month, Chelsea Clinton received her own Secret Service protection, as well.  Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump still do not have their own protection, as of the latest information."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		15	276	741.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035595553205337	"President Barack Obama characterized Donald Trump's presidential campaign as an ""infomercial"" during a fundraiser in Manhattan Sunday night.  In town for this week's United Nations General Assembly, Obama spoke to supporters at the Gramercy Park home of restaurateur Danny Meyer and his wife Audrey.  ""This guy's unqualified to be president and he shows no interest in even gaining the rudimentary knowledge required to make really hard decisions on a day to day basis,"" Obama said of the Republican presidential candidate. ""There's no curiosity. There's no desire to get up to speed. It's a infomercial. It's a reality show.""  Trump previously appeared on several seasons of NBC's reality show, ""The Apprentice,"" and he has also lent his name to several products over the course of his career, including menswear, alcohol, magazines and hotels.  And in a nod to Trump's comments and policies that have been slammed by critics as racist and xenophobic, Obama said, ""It's tapping into some of our worst impulses ... one's that divide us rather then bring us together. One's that seek to put down people who have been historically vulnerable opposed to lifting them up.""  Obama admitted that presidential race will be a close race, explaining, ""So this should not be a close election but it will be and the reason it will be is not because of Hillary's flaws but rather because structurally we've become a very polarized society and if all you're doing is watching Fox News and listening to Rush Limbaugh... a lot of misinformation on a regular basis, it's very hard for you to think that you're going to vote for somebody who you've been told is taking the country in the wrong direction.""  The president also acknowledge that Americans are still trying to come to terms with having a female president. ""I will also say that there's a reason why we haven't had a women president... As a society we still grapple with what it means to see powerful women. And it still troubles us in a lot of ways unfairly. And that expresses itself in all sorts of ways."""	9/19/16	link	mostly true		56	300	651.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035748639856695	"The recent connected bombings in New York and New Jersey and the stabbing attack at a mall in Minnesota have increased interest in how the presidential candidates would handle national security.  Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump have spoken out since the attacks, which left dozens of people injured.  John Cohen, a former counterterrorism coordinator for the Department of Homeland Security, said he believes that the terrorist attacks that have occurred during the campaign ""have a significant impact"" on voters.  ""When events occur like this ... you tend to have people become more fearful, and when people are more fearful, they tend to gravitate towards a candidate who appears to be more strong,"" said Cohen, who currently works as an ABC News consultant.  Three of the latest national polls — all conducted before the attacks this weekend — had Clinton leading when respondents were asked whom they trust to handle the issue of terrorism.  Hillary Clinton: Terrorism Threat Is 'Real,' Calls for Resolve Donald Trump Repeats Calls for Police Profiling After NYC Area Explosions In an ABC News/Washington Post poll released Sept. 11, Clinton led, 50 percent to Trump's 41 percent among all adults and 48 percent to Trump's 45 percent among likely voters when asked about who was more trusted to handle terrorism.  A CBS/New York Times poll released Sept. 14 had Clinton doing ""a better job handling terrorism and national security"" according to 49 percent of respondents, compared with Trump's 45 percent.  The split was closest in a Quinnipiac poll released Sept. 15, in which respondents were asked who they thought would do a better job keeping the country safe from terrorism, ""regardless of how you intend to vote."" In that poll, Clinton got 49 percent to Trump's 47 percent.  ""Traditionally, it's been the Republican Party who has projected strength and awareness in the area of law enforcement and homeland security, but today that's kind of flipped because, despite his rhetoric, there are a number of national security experts who have raised concerns about the level of understanding that Donald Trump has as it relates to terrorism and national security threats,"" Cohen said.  PHOTO: Police officers look for suspicious packages along Fifth Avenue near the scene of an explosion on West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattans Chelsea neighborhood, in New York, Sept. 18, 2016.Andres Kudacki/AP Photo Police officers look for suspicious packages along Fifth Avenue near the scene of an explosion on West 23rd Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, in New York, Sept. 18, 2016.more + Current events are factoring into the political campaigns, with the candidates scheduling speeches about national security in the wake of attacks. But Cohen said political rhetoric could also be affecting and even motivating the attacks themselves.  He said Trump's rhetoric and calls to bar foreign Muslims from entering the United States ""may even serve to further along those who are becoming inspired to act on [ISIS'] behalf.""  James Campbell, a professor of political science at the University at Buffalo in New York who has written a book about political polarization, told ABC News that he believes the attacks translate to a potential advantage for Trump.  ""I have to think that terrorist events in this country help Trump and hurt Clinton. For these events to be occurring with the frequency they do may be read by many as a failure of the current administration and particularly its foreign policy team to effectively deal with the problem,"" he said.  ""It may also suggest that we need a tougher approach to dealing with terrorism, an approach associated with Trump. When suspects are identified who have Muslim-sounding names, then that may further fuel support for tougher immigration standards and scrutiny,"" Campbell added."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		13	101	731.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035778606520365	"Ivanka Trump met privately with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisconsin, Monday in New York City, sources confirmed to ABC News.  Trump, who requested the meeting, attended Ryan's speech at the Economic Club of New York before the two had a scheduled meeting.  House Speaker Paul Ryan Urges GOP Unity Behind Donald Trump Paul Ryan Criticizes Vladimir Putin Amid Trump's Praise for Russian Leader Ryan shared some of his experiences from the 2012 presidential campaign trail and Trump provided Ryan with an update on her father's presidential campaign, according to a source.  Ryan has not crossed paths with Trump or his family since the Republican National Convention. He has been running a parallel election-year campaign touting the House GOP ""Better Way"" policy agenda and raising money for Republicans in the House and Senate, setting fundraising records.  Last week, he suggested Trump should release his tax returns.  Ivanka Trump, who is one of her father's closest confidantes, has kept in touch with Hill Republicans throughout the presidential campaign on policy issues.  She also joined her father in Washington, D.C. for his meetings with House and Senate Republicans in early July.  ""She was good,"" Rep. Peter King, R-New York, told reporters at the time.  ABC's John Santucci contributed to this report."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		2	37	251.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035801043184788	"In this final stretch before Election Day, the Clinton camp is setting its sights on the youth.  The Democratic presidential nominee today held a millennial-focused campaign event at Temple University in Philadelphia, where she made her pitch to the voting bloc that has been unwilling to fully rally behind her.  ""Even if you are totally opposed to Donald Trump, you may still have some questions about me. I get that,"" Clinton, in a moment of self-reflection, told the crowd of 300 people. ""And I want to do my best to answer those questions.”  She explained that the “service” part of “public service” has always been easier for her than the “public” part. “I will never be the showman my opponent is and, you know what, that's OK with me,” she said, referring to Donald Trump.  Hillary Clinton: Terrorism Threat Is 'Real' and Calls for Resolve Donald Trump Repeats Calls for Police Profiling After NYC Area Explosions Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton Running Neck and Neck in New Poll 2 Months Before Election Day Over the past week, the Clinton campaign has redoubled its efforts to attract millennials, whom demographers define loosely as people born in the early-1980s through the early-2000s.  Clinton surrogates President Obama, first lady Michelle Obama, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts have all been tapped to hit the trail.  The main focus: urging young people to vote.  “We need everyone off the sidelines,” Clinton said today. “Not voting is not an option. That just plays into Trump’s hands, it really does.”  Clinton, who started her remarks calling on the country to “remain vigilant” in the wake of the bombings in New York and New Jersey, also used the opportunity to contrast herself with her Republican opponent.  ""You want something to vote for, not just against,"" she told the crowd. “Optimism, not resentment. Answers, not anger. Ideas, not insults. Bridges, not walls.  “You're also here because you know this election isn't a reality-TV show. It shouldn't be about birth certificates or name calling or stunts to get on the cable news,” she added, referencing Trump’s long-held and false belief that Obama was born outside the United States.  “This election comes down to a choice between two very different visions for America,” she concluded.  Trump has since said that he believes Obama was born in the United States.  Although Clinton is polling better with young adults than Trump (a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll found that she has 40 percent support among youth versus Trump’s 28 percent), the demographic, as a whole, has shown less enthusiasm for her candidacy than other Democrats.  According to that same poll, 60 percent of Democratic adults under the age of 30 said they had hoped Sanders would win their party’s nomination, while 26 percent said Clinton.  That number, however, is better than it was four months ago. (During the primary in spring, 75 percent of Democrats under the age of 30 supported Sanders, while only 25 percent said they supported Clinton, according to the ABC News/Washington Post poll.)  Clinton campaign officials, who hope to close that gap further, say they plan to continue these outreach efforts throughout the rest of the campaign.  ""The millennial generation is a key voting bloc in this election and it's clear that the campaign must do more to earn their vote,” Clinton spokesman Jennifer Palmieri said in a statement today. “That is why the campaign has recently ramped up efforts to engage millennial voters through a stretch of events with surrogates like President Obama, first lady Michelle Obama, Senator Tim Kaine, Anne Holton, Chelsea Clinton, Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator Bernie Sanders.  “The campaign has also brought on board staff at headquarters and in states to organize and mobilize millennial voters,” she added. “And over the coming weeks, the campaign will continue to host discussions in communities on how Hillary Clinton is fighting for them.”  ABC News’ Ryan Struyk contributed to this report."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		25	263	871.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035825603182332	"Today marks the one-week mark ahead of the first of the three presidential debates during the 2016 campaign and the candidates are gearing up.  The Commission on Presidential Debates announced today the broad topics that are slated to be covered during the first debate: America's Direction, Achieving Prosperity and Securing America.  The topics were selected by the moderator, Lester Holt of ""NBC Nightly News,"" but are ""subject to possible changes because of news developments.""  The commission also made its final decision on Friday that there would only be two candidates taking the debate stage on Monday, Sept. 26. It ruled that neither Libertarian Party nominee Gary Johnson nor Green Party nominee Jill Stein had met the 15 percent mark in a combination of polls, which had previously been set as the bar for participation qualification.  Everything We Know About the Presidential Debates Only Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump Will Participate in 1st Presidential Debate 2016 Election Forecast: Predict Which Candidate Will Win the Presidential Election Before Republican nominee Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Clinton head to Hofstra University, the site of the first debate, the candidates and their campaign aides have started teasing their debate prep strategies.  Trump started his debate prep in late August, and at the time, sources told ABC News that he hadn't participated in mock debates, which is one of the more typical prep strategies for presidential candidates.  As for Trump's personal debate strategy, he hasn't talked about the specifics of his game plan, focusing more on how he will deal with facing one opponent head on.  ""I will treat her with great respect unless she treats me in a certain manner, in which case that will be the end of that,"" Trump said about Clinton last week during an appearance on Sean Hannity's Fox News show. ""But I'm certainly starting off with the feeling that I'm going to treat her with great respect. I hope we can talk about policy and certain things. I am not looking to go in and treat her with disrespect.""  Clinton's press secretary Brian Fallon told MSNBC last Thursday that she won't ""go in there seeking to provoke Donald Trump.""  ""She's going to do what she always does which shows she got the grasp of the issue and the command and poise of being commandeering chief. That contrast there will speak for itself,"" Fallon said."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		15	106	291.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1035859429845616	"Russian President Vladimir Putin’s party has won national parliamentary elections with a significantly increased majority, a result that cements Putin's total control over the country's political life and which potentially grants him the ability to change Russia's constitution. With 93% of the vote counted, the party, United Russia, was shown to have taken 343 of 450 seats in the lower house of parliament, a sizable increase on its previous 238 seats.  The vote was marked by an exceptionally low turnout of just 40 percent, illustrating a sense among many Russians that the election was of little importance in a country where the Kremlin determines all major policy decisions and elections are seen as stage-managed.  PHOTO: People stand inside voting booths as they visit a polling station during a parliamentary election in Stavropol, Russia, Sept. 18, 2016. Eduard Korniyenko/Reuters People stand inside voting booths as they visit a polling station during a parliamentary election in Stavropol, Russia, Sept. 18, 2016. more + Still, the result reinforced the political system engineered by the Kremlin under Putin over the past 16 years. The two parties that took second and third place are nominally in opposition to the Russian leader but in practice almost invariably support the Kremlin line. Reflecting the strength of nationalist feeling in Russia following the seizure of Crimea, the ultra-nationalist Liberal Democratic Party came second to United Russia with around 15 percent of the vote, a strong showing for the party that is led by Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a man regularly described as Russia’s Donald Trump. Russia’s Communist Party came a close third, while the anti-Putin opposition failed to break the 5% barrier to enter parliament, losing its only lawmaker there. The win gives United Russia a two-thirds majority that allows it to amend the constitution.  United Russia's head, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev declared victory and Putin congratulated the party, saying it showed ""political maturity"" among Russians.  The outcome was not surprising. With the country strongly behind Putin -- whose approval ratings stand around 80 percent -- and the opposition effectively sidelined, the vote had been described by some observers as the “dullest” election in Russian history. The only surprise was the scale of United Russia's win, overcoming polls suggesting it would have a poor showing.  That was in stark contrast to the last time Russians voted for their parliament in 2011, when significant vote-rigging prompted huge street protests. Tens of thousands marched in Moscow demanding Putin’s resignation in what was the biggest popular challenge to his rule that the Russian leader has faced.  Such upheavals seem now all but impossible, underlining the vivid shift in Russia’s political atmosphere since then.  Eager to avoid a repeat of 2011’s trouble, this time the Kremlin has sought to create an impression that the vote would be clean. It removed the head of Russia’s elections commission -- pejoratively nicknamed the “wizard” for his ability to make the numbers add up in Putin’s favor, and replacing him with a respected human rights defender. Confident the country’s beleaguered opposition was without traction among the public, authorities had also opened up a small breathing space for them during the elections allowing them to field more candidates and to take part in TV debates.  Those moves led many to predict the elections would not see significant amounts of voting fraud. With popular sentiment aggressively pro-Putin and most Russians convinced of the impossibility of political change, there appeared little need for vote rigging. How true that was was still being debated on Monday. Following the vote across Russia's 11 time zones, it was clear that the vote had been far from pristine, with growing reports of cheating and numerous videos appearing to show ballot-stuffing, but there were few claims that the violations had had any decisive impact. While threatening to annul some results where cheating was recorded, the head of Russia’s elections commission, Ella Pamfilova, said was sure the vote had been legitimate, the TASS state news agency reported.  Although the vote may prove to be cleaner than in the past, critics said it was not fairer. Under Putin, the Kremlin has neutered Russia’s political debates, creating a pseudo-opposition and marginalizing actual opponents by jailing or blocking them from running, largely barring them from television, and harassing their campaigns.  The parliament itself has become a rubber-stamping body, directed on how to act on most issues by the Kremlin and offering no opposition on major decisions. Before today the unauthorized opposition, the so-called “nonsystem opposition”, had only one lawmaker in the parliament, and its leaders and activists have been continuously harassed and occasionally physically attacked.  This year, as part of the experiment to lend greater legitimacy to the elections, anti-Putin parties were given greater leeway. That step, however, seemed to reflect the Kremlin’s confidence in its position rather than any newfound political liberalism. With the country wrapped in nationalist sentiment following Crimea’s annexation and intensified repression of dissent, there is virtually no desire for major political change. Yabloko and Parnas, the two leading parties running on anti-Putin platforms, both failed to get above the 5%, with the early results suggesting that Russia's parliament would now not have a single openly anti-Putin lawmaker in parliament.  With the final result never in doubt, there was a sensation of the system going through the motions and the majority of Russians appeared to opt out of the vote, viewing it as of little relevance.  Many Russians said they can’t remember a more lackluster election run. Even the Kremlin official tasked with managing the vote, Vladimir Volodin, has described United Russia’s campaign as “sterile”, telling the business paper RBC that he believed the tactic was not to produce enthusiasm for the party but just to bring off a technically irreproachable campaign.  The apathy was reflected in a record low turnout, at 40.37% the lowest since Putin took power in 2000 and 20% lower than in the contested election in 2012. In Moscow, the turnout was just 33%. In the days prior to voting, a startling number of Russians were not even aware the elections were happening.  The sharp drop in participation compared with 2011, suggested that Russians' beliefs in what was politically possible in the country had narrowed considerably.  At polling stations in Moscow on Sunday, many voters said they expected the vote to be cleaner than in previous years, though few expected it would be totally without fraud. Many, even those voting for the ruling party, were ambivalent about whether the vote showed Russia had democracy. Asked whether he felt Russia was democratic, one man pulled face and made a half-and-half gesture with his hand.  “Does Russia have democracy?,” Vyacheslav Aleksandrovich, 63, said before voting. “Maybe. Probably we have some kind of democracy. I don’t know, I haven’t seen any other kind.”  Others were more definite, saying that although they did not believe they had full-fledged democracy, it was important to vote to keep what elements of it still exist in Russia.  “At the very least, it opposes the trend of authoritarianism that has appeared in Russia recently,” Lev Karakhan, a television producer accompanied by his children said after voting."	9/19/16	link	mostly true		3	24	61.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036151719816387	"Former President George H.W. Bush plans to vote for Hillary Clinton in the upcoming election, according to a report by Politico.  The Republican 41st president and member of a conservative political dynasty that spans several generations will vote against his party, says the scion of another family at the center of American politics.  Kathleen Hartington Kennedy Townsend, a former Maryland lieutenant governor and daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, posted to Facebook, ""The President told me he’s voting for Hillary!!”  Townsend told Politico she met with Bush, 92, in Maine on Monday, where he told her about his preference in this year’s ballot. “That’s what he said,” she told Politico.  “The vote President Bush will cast as a private citizen in some 50 days will be just that: a private vote cast in some 50 days,” a spokesman for Bush told ABC News. “He is not commenting on the presidential race in the interim.”"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		117	614	701.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036199296478296	"The candidates are in the final stretch of the debates as the presidential campaign is on a true countdown.  Some new information about the final debate was announced today, and considering the first two presidential debates of this cycle were the most viewed ever in the history of presidential debates, the third and final one could make history as well.  ""I think there's going to be a lot of focus [on the debates] and they've always been a really important part of the process,"" said Peter Eyre, a senior adviser with the Commission on Presidential Debates, the independent organization that sponsors the events.  Watch the third presidential debate on ABC News and ABCNews.com at 9 p.m. ET on Wednesday, Oct. 19.  Here's a rundown of the debates so far and what we know about the second and third head-to-head match-ups between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.  When and Where  First presidential debate: Sept. 26 at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York.  Moderator: NBC's ""Nightly News"" anchor Lester Holt  The debate had six segments covering different subjects, as mandated by the commission.  The commission had announced that Holt selected three topics -- America's direction, achieving prosperity and securing America -- to cover during the debate, but noted that they were subject to change based on news events.  Vice presidential debate: Oct. 4 at Longwood University in Farmville, Virginia.  Moderator: CBS News correspondent Elaine Quijano  The debate was set to feature nine segments, each about 10 minutes long. The topics of the debate were not announced in advance.  Tim Kaine answered the first question, as a result of a coin toss.  Second presidential debate: Oct. 9 at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.  Moderators: ABC News' chief global affairs correspondent Martha Raddatz and CNN anchor Anderson Cooper  The debate was held in a town hall format, with about half the questions asked by members of the audience and the other by the moderators. Gallup was responsible for finding the audience members, who are supposed to be uncommitted voters, the commission announced.  The topics of the debate were not announced in advance.  Third presidential debate: Oct. 19 at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas.  Moderator: ""Fox News Sunday"" anchor Chris Wallace  The final debate will be in the same format as the first one.  The specific topics of the debate were announced today and include debt and entitlements, immigration, the economy, the Supreme Court, foreign hot spots and fitness to be president. They are subject to change based on news events.  PHOTO: Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton participates in the PBS NewsHour Presidential Primary Debate in Milwaukee, on Feb. 11, 2016.Tasos Katopodis/AFP/Getty Images Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton participates in the PBS NewsHour Presidential Primary Debate in Milwaukee, on Feb. 11, 2016.more + Who Will Be on Stage  Much like the first presidential debate, Clinton and Trump are the only two candidates who will be on stage this Sunday.  Based on the CPD's average of polls from five different national polls, Clinton has 44.8 percent of the national vote, Trump has 40.8 percent, and neither Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson nor Green Party candidate Jill Stein passed the required 15 percent threshold to be included in the debate. The averages put Johnson at 7.8 percent and Green at 2.6 percent, respectively.  The commission previously announced it will use five surveys -- ABC News/Washington Post, CBS/New York Times, CNN/Opinion Research Corp., Fox News and NBC/Wall Street Journal -- to make the decision.  Kaine and Pence were the only two candidates who participated in the vice presidential debate.  Who Will Be in the Audience  The names of any high-profile campaign guests have not yet been announced for the town hall debate.  For that town hall debate, the participating audience will be anywhere in size from a couple dozen people up to as many as 100 people, with a viewing audience of about 1,000.  Polling company Gallup has been tasked with finding the audience members for the participating audience, who are expected to be uncommitted voters.  In the run-up to the first presidential debate, attention was paid to some of the big names who would be in the audience off-stage.  Chelsea Clinton attended the debate, a first for her this election cycle after not attending any of the Democratic primary debates. And then another familiar face was present in the front row supporting Team Clinton: Mark Cuban.  The billionaire Dallas Mavericks owner is a vocal Clinton supporter and reportedly went so far as to volunteer to play Trump in Clinton's mock debates. He has said the Clinton team never returned his email offer, but they did keep him in mind for another move.  Just got a front row seat to watch @HillaryClinton overwhelm @realDonaldTrump at the ""Humbling at Hofstra"" on Monday. It Is On !  — Mark Cuban (@mcuban) September 23, 2016 About 1,000 people are expected in the viewing audience at each debate, and while Eyre didn’t expect there to be frequent cuts to the audience by TV cameras, there is a chance that special guests sitting near the front may be seen on TV at some point.  The audience will be a mix of guests of the universities, guests of the campaigns and ""others who have made the debates possible, including sponsors, members of the media, security, etc.,"" he said.  How the Moderators Were Picked  Commission officials are tasked with picking the moderators for the debates, and while they normally announce their decisions in August, the final list was released in September this year.  ""These journalists bring extensive experience to the job of moderating, and understand the importance of using expanded time periods effectively,” Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr. and Michael D. McCurry, co-chairs of the nonpartisan commission, said in the statement announcing the moderators.  Raddatz, who is a co-anchor of the ABC News Sunday show ""This Week,"" is the only one of the four who has been selected by the commission before. She moderated the vice presidential debate between Joe Biden and Rep. Paul Ryan in 2012.  CNN's Candy Crowley was selected to moderate the town hall-style debate between President Obama and Mitt Romney in 2012. This year, that format will have two moderators: Raddatz and Cooper.  Crowley was the second female debate moderator ever. The first was ABC News' Carole Simpson in 1992.  ""The formats chosen for this year's debates are designed to build on the formats introduced in 2012, which focused big blocks of time on major domestic and foreign topics,” Fahrenkopf and McCurry said in the statement. “We are grateful for their willingness to moderate, and confident that the public will learn more about the candidates and the issues as a result.”  Debate Prep Underway  Trump spoke repeatedly about his relaxed approach to preparations ahead of the first presidential debate. That might have changed with the second debate, but not according to Trump: he denies that a town hall-style event in New Hampshire on Thursday -- complete with a timer set to the same response times required for Sunday's debate -- was practice for the main event this weekend.  Kaine and Pence have both been running mock debates, with D.C. power lawyer Bob Barnett acting as Pence and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker standing in as Kaine.  As for the top of their tickets, the candidates took dramatically different approaches to debate prep in keeping with their starkly different campaigns.  Clinton cleared her schedule and took herself off the campaign trail for the four days before the first debate. She did intensive debate prep, which included mock debates complete with a Trump stand-in: her longtime aide Philippe Reines, whom Clinton has called ""loyal, passionate and shrewd.""  She also reviewed Trump's performance in Republican primary debates, according to campaign sources.  By contrast, Trump had two campaign events scheduled days before the first debate on Sept. 26.  His debate prep was slim and he did not delve into policy or participated in mock debates, sources have told ABC News.  The one study tactic that they both shared was a review of their opponent's past performances. But while aides say Clinton actively reviewed Trump's work, senior level Trump sources said he was given an iPad loaded with footage of old Clinton debates, though it's unclear how much time he spent watching them.  Trump was reportedly being advised by his senior campaign staff, including campaign manager Kellyanne Conway and campaign CEO Stephen Bannon, as well as former Fox News chief Roger Ailes, who has worked on the campaigns of Presidents George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan in the past.  Well-known Washington lawyer Bob Barnett was said to be advising Clinton during her debate prep. He helped her prepare for the primary debates by playing Sen. Bernie Sanders. The campaign reportedly found someone to play Trump in their mock debates but they were tight-lipped about the person's identity.  Trump didn’t speak extensively about his debate prep, but talked about the tone he expected to take.  ""I'm going to be very respectful of her,"" Trump said during a phone interview on Fox News before the first debate, referring to Clinton.  ""I think she deserves that and I'm going to be nice. And if she's respectful of me, that’ll be nice. We'll have something that I think people will respect as a debate but we'll see where it all goes. You really never know exactly how it's going to turn out and that's why we’re going to have a lot of people watching,"" Trump said.  ABC News' Liz Kreutz, John Santucci, Candace Smith and Ryan Struyk contributed to this report.  Watch FULL LIVE COVERAGE of the third presidential debate at 9 p.m. ET on Wednesday, Oct. 19. Coverage and analysis of the debate will begin on ABCNews.com/Live at 7 p.m. ET."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		6	45	231.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036251303139762	"The suspect in a spate of bombings that terrorized the New York City metropolitan area this weekend visited a city in Pakistan known for being a hotbed of insurgent activity, a source told ABC News.  The suspect, Ahmad Khan Rahami, was born in 1988 in Afghanistan and is a naturalized U.S. citizen, according to the FBI.  Rahami spent time in Quetta, Pakistan, and Afghanistan during a trip, from April 2013 to March 2014, the source said.  Man Who Found Bombing Suspect Recounts Dramatic Shootout NY, NJ Bombings Suspect Charged With Attempted Murder of Cops Quetta, a city of about 2 million people, is a known hotspot for insurgents and the reported home of the leadership of the Afghan Taliban.  ""If they spent more than a few days, it raises suspicions that while they were there, they will have been recruited by terrorist groups,"" national security consultant Richard Clarke said on ABC News' ""World News Tonight"" Monday, referring to Rahami's travel to the area.  A spokesman for the Taliban, Zabiullah Mujahid, told ABC News that there was no link between the Taliban and Rahami.  PHOTO: Police and FBI bring items out of the apartment above the First American Fried Chicken restaurant, Sept. 19, 2016 in Elizabeth, New Jersey.Matthew McDermott/Polaris Police and FBI bring items out of the apartment above the First American Fried Chicken restaurant, Sept. 19, 2016 in Elizabeth, New Jersey.more + Afghan and U.S. government officials say they believe Quetta has sheltered the Afghan Taliban's leaders since the U.S. invasion forced them to flee the country in 2002. The Taliban's central leadership council, believed to be based there, is known as the Quetta Shura.  Officials say leaders there have planned and directed attacks across the border in Afghanistan and coordinated with terrorist groups like al-Qaeda.  The area has a major border crossing that leads to Kandahar in Afghanistan and is reported to be a transit point for extremists traveling in and out of Afghanistan and a hub for illegal trade crossing the porous and largely unsecured border.  PHOTO: A suspect believed to be Ahmad Khan Rahami, earlier named as a person of interest in the New York City and New Jersey bombings, was taken into custody in New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016.WABC A suspect believed to be Ahmad Khan Rahami, earlier named as a ""person of interest"" in the New York City and New Jersey bombings, was taken into custody in New Jersey, Sept. 19, 2016.more + Several al-Qaeda militants have been killed or captured in the area, and the United States last year destroyed an al-Qaeda base across the border in Kandahar province that U.S. officials said was the largest militant training camp discovered in the history of the Afghanistan war.  Quetta harbors a long-simmering insurgency against the Pakistani government. The city has seen a number of significant violent attacks and bombings, most recently last month, when a blast killed more than 70 people and injured over 100 others.  In May of this year, a U.S. airstrike in Baluchistan province, which encompasses Quetta, killed Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour.  The Pentagon said in a 2014 report that as long as Afghan Taliban forces enjoy “sanctuary” in Quetta and in neighboring border areas of western Pakistan, the Afghan insurgency will persist.  Rahami, who was captured Monday after a shootout with police, is being held on charges of attempted murder of a law enforcement officer, second-degree unlawful possession of a weapon and second-degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		1	23	151.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036296946468531	"Donald Trump Jr., a son of the Republican presidential nominee, took to Twitter on Monday to publish a graphic that likened Syrian refugees to Skittles.  The graphic asked the question, “If I had a bowl of skittles and I told you just three would kill you. Would you take a handful?”  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 4:41 PM - 19 Sep 2016   17,170 17,170 Retweets   28,127 28,127 likes “That’s our Syrian refugee problem,” it reads. Trump added, “This image says it all.”  How Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump Have Reacted to Terror Attacks During the Campaign The tweet drew both sharp criticism and support in the form of responses, retweets and online comments. The uproar led Mars Inc., the parent company of the manufacturer of Skittles, to issue a statement. Mars tweeted, “Skittles are candy; refugees are people.”  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Mars, Incorporated _ @MarsGlobal 10:13 PM - 19 Sep 2016   5,251 5,251 Retweets   7,848 7,848 likes Hillary Clinton’s traveling spokesman, Nick Merrill, retweeted Trump, saying, “This is disgusting.”   Follow  Nick Merrill @NickMerrill This is disgusting. https://twitter.com/donaldjtrumpjr/status/778016283342307328 … 6:27 PM - 19 Sep 2016   232 232 Retweets   362 362 likes The White House announced last week that it wants to increase to 110,000 the number of refugees the U.S. accepts in the next fiscal year. This year, the country has taken in more than 11,000 Syrian refugees.  More than 11 million people — over half of Syria’s population — have fled their homes, according to the latest U.N. figures, with 6.6 million displaced in Syria and 4.8 million seeking refuge abroad.  Donald Trump Sr. has proposed what he called “extreme vetting” of immigrants entering the country, suggesting ideological tests and screening based on religious background."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		31	170	971.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036432846454941	"With the world watching, President Barack Obama today took an apparent swipe at Donald Trump's plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, in his eighth and final address to the United Nations General Assembly as commander in chief.  ""Today a nation ringed by walls would only imprison itself,"" Obama warned, without naming the Republican presidential nominee.  Obama further cautioning against ""the same forces of global integration"" that have made democracies interdependent while exposing ""deep fault lines in the existing international order"" like gaps between the rich and poor created by capitalism throughout the world.  He made two other references to the ineffectiveness of walls in stopping global forces, quipping in an apparent reference to the Zika virus that ""mosquitoes don't respect walls"" and saying of terrorism that ""the world is simply too small to be able to build a wall and stop it from affecting our own societies.""  Though he never directly addressed the U.S. presidential election, Obama's message for the General Assembly was in many ways applicable to the impulses raging in the race, citing ""a contest between authoritarianism and democracy right now"" and an appeal for a top-down ""strongman model.""  Obama rejected such tendencies. ""History shows that strongmen are then left with two paths,"" he said. ""Permanent crackdown, which sparks strife at home, or scapegoating enemies abroad, which can lead to war.""  This Is Home: Children Document Life in World's Largest Syrian Refugee Camp President Obama Seeks to Reassure Americans After Bombings Speaking about the big picture, the Obama recounted the progress made during his presidency, on issues such as the global financial crisis, international terrorism and re-establishing relations with Cuba.  ""This is important work,"" he stressed. ""It has made a real difference in the lives of our people, and it could not have happened had we not worked together.""  Obama said nations ""can choose to press forward with a better model of cooperation and integration"" or ""retreat into a world sharply divided and ultimately in conflict along age-old lines of nation and tribe and race and religion.""  ""I want to suggest to you today that we must go forward and not backward,"" he said, although he added that doing so would require nations of the world to ""acknowledge that the existing path to global integration requires a course correction.""  ""The answer cannot be a simple rejection of global integration,"" Obama said. ""Instead, we must work together to make sure the benefits of such integration are broadly shared and that the disruptions — economic, political and cultural — that are caused by integration are squarely addressed."" Obama demanded that democracies of the world ""speak out forcefully"" for ""freedom and dignity.""  ""A world in which 1 percent of the economy controls the other 99 percent will never be stable,"" he said. ""These are the policies I've pursued in the United States, and with clear results"" — touting progress in job creation, cutting poverty, improving infrastructure and investing in childhood education.  His speech came as fighting in Syria has resumed after the Syrian military declared Monday an end to the fragile cease-fire deal that was brokered between the U.S. and Russia just over a week ago.  ""Together now we have to open our hearts and do more to help refugees who are desperate for a home. We should all welcome the pledges of increased assistance that have been made at this General Assembly gathering,"" Obama said. ""There's a lot of nations right now that are doing the right thing, but many nations — particularly those blessed with wealth and the benefits of geography — that can do more to offer a hand.""  In the same month that North Korea conducted its second nuclear test of the year, Obama highlighted the benefits of free markets over markets resisting influence from globalization.  ""We cannot unwind integration any more than we can stuff technology back into a box, nor can we look to failed models of the past. If we start resorting to trade wars, market distorting subsidies, overreliance on national resources instead of innovation, these approaches will make us poor collectively, and they're more likely to lead to conflict,"" he said.  ""And the stark contrast between, say, the success of the Republic of Korea and the wasteland of North Korea shows that central plan to control the economy is a dead end,"" Obama said."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	209	471.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036447253120167	"Aid to Syria has been suspended after yesterday's attack on a United Nations and Syrian Arab Red Crescent convoy in the countryside of Aleppo.  The convoy was delivering wheat flour, health supplies and other emergency aid to some 75,000 people in Urum al-Kubra in rural Aleppo, according to the U.N. Of the 31 trucks in the convoy, at least 18 were hit. A Syrian Red Crescent warehouse was also destroyed and a health clinic severely damaged, the U.N. said. About 20 civilians and one SARC staff member were killed as they were unloading the trucks, according to a joint statement from the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, the International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.  ""The convoys that we had hoped to move across the border to Syria as well as aid inside Syria have been temporarily put on hold. As a result, millions of people across Syria run a very real risk of not receiving the assistance they need because of this callous attack,"" David Swanson, a spokesman for the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, told ABC News. He noted that all parties to the conflict were notified about the convoy and that it was marked with aid signs.  ""Obviously, we are absolutely outraged that such an attack can take place,"" he said.  The U.N.'s aid coordinator said the attack on the aid convoy could amount to a war crime.  ""Let me be clear: If this callous attack is found to be a deliberate targeting of humanitarians, it would amount to a war crime. I call for an immediate, impartial and independent investigation into this deadly incident,"" Stephen O’Brien, the U.N.'s undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator, said in a statement after the attack.  The Red Crescent in Aleppo confirmed in a statement that Omar Barakat, SARC's director in Urum al-Kubra, was among those killed.  Yousef Houran, a lawyer and activist in Syria, said he witnessed aid trucks burning after the attack in Urum al-Kubra.  ""Bodies of Red Crescent volunteers are still burning inside the cars and no one can get close to them because of repeated airstrikes on the same spot,"" he told ABC News last night following the attack.  19 Sep  ICRC Syria _ @ICRC_sy Devastating news: @SYRedCrescent attacked in rural #Aleppo. We’re shocked humanitarian workers have again suffered the brutality of conflict  Follow  ICRC Syria _ @ICRC_sy Our thoughts go to families of brave @SYRedCrescent volunteers & staff killed in tonight's terrible attack on aid convoy in rural #Aleppo 3:29 PM - 19 Sep 2016   429 429 Retweets   241 241 likes Two U.N. trucks carrying flour and food supplies — enough to feed about 185,000 people for one month — have been parked by the Syria-Turkey border, waiting for security assurances in order to make the journey into the besieged eastern Aleppo. These trucks will remain parked until the U.N. re-evaluates the situation on the ground. Today, the four besieged towns of Madaya, Zabadani, Foua and Kefraya were supposed to receive humanitarian assistance, but the U.N. has also put these deliveries on hold indefinitely.  After the Syrian military declared the end of the U.S.-Russian-brokered truce last night, airstrikes hit several areas in Aleppo.  ""We heard from a partner from Aleppo that there were 100 airstrikes in about five hours yesterday,"" Misty Buswell, Save the Children's regional advocacy director for the Middle East, told ABC News. ""It's brutal what is going on right now and there has to be accountability for what happened last night. This is not the first time that we have seen aid being attacked in Syria. This demonstrates the new lows that this conflict has reached. We’re hearing that hospitals are overwhelmed by the number of casualties that are coming in today.""  At least 38 civilians, including one child and three women, were killed by airstrikes in Aleppo and its western and eastern countryside, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Today, airstrikes continued and the observatory said that warplanes dropped 27 barrel bombs on different neighborhoods in Aleppo city.  After an International Syria Support Group meeting today, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters that ""the cease-fire is not dead."" The U.N.'s special envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, echoed that statement but warned that the cease-fire is ""in danger."" The group is due to meet again on Friday.  The cease-fire pact focused on reducing violence in the war-torn country and delivering humanitarian aid. The agreement had to be reached before Russia and the U.S. would work together to fight militant groups ISIS and al-Nusra in Syria. After yesterday's attack on the aid convoy, the U.S. Department of State released a statement yesterday saying it would now reconsider the prospect of cooperating with Russia.  ""The United States is outraged by reports that a humanitarian aid convoy was bombed near Aleppo today,"" the statement read. ""For more than a week, we have urged Moscow to fulfill the commitments it made in Geneva to facilitate the unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid to the Syrian people. And for more than a week, the Syrian regime repeatedly denied entry to these U.N. convoys, preventing them from delivering urgent food, water and medical supplies to desperate Syrian citizens. Only today did the regime finally grant permits for some convoys to proceed. The destination of this convoy was known to the Syrian regime and the Russian federation and yet these aid workers were killed in their attempt to provide relief to the Syrian people. The United States will raise this issue directly with Russia. Given the egregious violation of the Cessation of Hostilities we will reassess the future prospects for cooperation with Russia.""  Russia and the Syrian government denied that they were behind the attack on the aid convoy.  The Aleppo media center today posted photos on Twitter of the destroyed aid trucks.  View image on TwitterView image on TwitterView image on TwitterView image on Twitter  Follow  ____ ___ ________ @AleppoAMC _____ _________ _______ __ ______ ______ ______ ______ #___ ________ ___ _________ ______ _____ ____ __ ______ ______.#AleppoAMC 1:57 AM - 20 Sep 2016   8 8 Retweets   13 13 likes Nearly 13.5 million people in Syria are in need of humanitarian assistance; an additional 4.8 million have fled their country, and 6.1 million are internally displaced, according to this month's figures from the U.N.'s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		3	29	51.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036474553117437	"Using Skittles to make a point about ""our Syrian refugee problem"" didn't go over too well with Mars Inc., but the candy maker's rebuke of Donald Trump Jr.'s controversial tweet is hardly a first.  The eldest Trump son posted a photo of a bowl of Skittles and a caption that reads, ""If I had a bowl of skittles and I told you just three would kill you. Would you take a handful? That's our Syrian refugee problem.""  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 4:41 PM - 19 Sep 2016   17,170 17,170 Retweets   28,127 28,127 likes The condemnation was swift, though he appears to be standing by the sentiment and has not removed the post.  He also didn't remove his Instagram post of Sept. 11, which was meant to be a play on Hillary Clinton's reference to some of his father's supporters as ""a basket of deplorables.""  That photo, which he wrote was sent to him by ""a friend,"" replaced images from the movie ""The Expendables"" with pictures of Donald Trump Sr., alt-right conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, alt-right blogger Milo Yiannopolous and other well-known Trump supporters like Gov. Chris Christie, Dr. Ben Carson and political strategist Roger Stone.  It also included a cartoon frog named Pepe, which is regularly used by alt-right supporters.   Donald Trump Jr. has been actively involved in his father's campaign, in public and private.  He was the one to cast the convention floor vote for his father that put the Republican presidential candidate over the top and secured him the nomination. Of the three Trump children active in their father's campaign, Donald Trump Jr. was the first to give a speech at the party convention in Cleveland this summer — which was well received by many in the audience.  PHOTO: The Trump family at the 2016 Republican National Convention from the Convention Center in Cleveland, Ohio, which airs on all ABC News programs and platforms, on July, 19, 2016. ABC News The Trump family at the 2016 Republican National Convention from the Convention Center in Cleveland, Ohio, which airs on all ABC News programs and platforms, on July, 19, 2016. more + ""Donald Trump Jr. was so excellent that my brain was already thinking, ‘What should we run him for?'"" Trisha Turner, the president of the New York State Federation of Republican Women, told ABC News at the convention.  He has also played a significant role behind the scenes of his father's campaign.  Donald Trump Jr. was extensively involved in the vice presidential selection process, even meeting with V.P. hopeful Christie, along with his siblings Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump, without their father present.  PHOTO: Donald Trump gives two thumbs up as his children, Donald Trump Jr. and Ivanka Trump stand and cheer for their brother, Eric Trump, as he delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention on July 20, 2016 in Cleveland, Ohio. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Donald Trump gives two thumbs up as his children, Donald Trump Jr. and Ivanka Trump stand and cheer for their brother, Eric Trump, as he delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention on July 20, 2016 in Cleveland, Ohio. more + In May, Donald Trump Jr. met on his own with Republican officials and the National Rifle Association on Capitol Hill.  A registered gun owner and known hunter, he was the one to lead the negotiations with the NRA leading up to the gun rights lobbying group's endorsement of his father, sources told ABC News."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		4	80	441.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036514203113472	"A ""journal"" belonging to New York City bombing suspect Ahmad Rahami has been recovered by authorities, two federal officials told ABC News.  The writings were apparently on Rahami when he allegedly engaged in a firefight with police, and the pages were shot through with a bullet. The officials said that in them, Rahami refers to the late American al-Qaeda cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, whose sermons and writings have been linked to a number of terrorist attacks and plots in the U.S.  Ghost of American al-Qaeda Haunts Another US Terror Plot FBI Opened Previous Inquiry Into Bombing Suspect Ahmad Khan Rahami A federal complaint filed against Rahami late Tuesday said that in the journal, he also praised Nidal Hasan, the 2009 Fort Hood shooter, and al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden.  ""You (USA Government) continue your [unintelligible] slaught[er] against the mujahidean [Islamic warriors] be it Afghanistan, Iraq, Sham [Syria], Palestine..."" part of the journal reads, according to the complaint. ""[God willing] the sounds of the bombs will be heard in the streets. Gun shots to your police. Death to your OPPRESSION.""  Investigators have also seized ""a lot of papers"" at a home linked to Rahami, a source told ABC News.  As of late Monday, authorities had not determined a motive for Rahami, who has been linked to bombings over the weekend in the Manhattan neighborhood of Chelsea and in New Jersey. Though two of the explosives were housed in pressure cookers, as was the case in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, the officials said there was no mention in Rahami's purported writings of the perpetrators of that attack, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Today officials said they're also investigating a possible link to five unexploded pipe bombs recovered in Elizabeth, N.J.  Rahami has been charged with attempted murder related to the shootout with police just before he was apprehended Monday.  Michele McPhee is a Boston-based freelance journalist and frequent ABC News contributor."	9/20/16	link	mostly true			14	41.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036552873109605	"Concerns about New York and New Jersey bombing suspect Ahmad Khan Rahami's intentions were raised to authorities by his father and a neighbor more than once over the past years, ABC News has learned.  Two years ago, Rahami's father told the FBI that his son was interacting with ""bad people"" overseas and a concerned citizen in the neighborhood told authorities that Rahami's associates may have been trying to procure explosives, sources told ABC News.  The FBI first became aware of Rahami in the summer of 2014, when local law enforcement contacted the agency's New Jersey field office about him, sources said.  A dispute at the Rahami home had brought local law enforcement to the house at that time. A neighbor told the authorities he overheard Rahami's father calling his son a ""terrorist,"" according to a U.S. official. In addition, the neighbor said Rahami’s father had expressed concern his son may be in contact with people overseas who were collecting explosives, ABC news was told.  The FBI then opened a so-called ""Guardian"" file on Rahami, initiating a process to determine whether Rahami had any links to terrorism or other criminal activity and whether a more formal investigation was warranted.  The assessment of Rahami produced no clear evidence or indications of radicalization, and at one point his father recanted his claims, sources said. Rahami was not placed on any U.S. terrorism watch lists.  Speaking to reporters today outside of his New Jersey home, Rahami's father said he ""called the FBI two years ago"" about his son.  ""I told them you got a connection with this guy,"" he said, without offering any further information.  Suspect in New York, New Jersey Bombings Caught After Shootout The FBI interviewed Rahami’s father after New Jersey officials compiled complaints and sent them a suspicious activity report. He told the FBI that his son had traveled to Pakistan and was interacting with ""bad people,"" according to sources. Rahami's father also told the FBI his son had injured and beaten members of his immediate family -- but a grand jury declined to file charges against him.  However, Rahami's father later told the FBI he didn't mean to suggest his son was a terrorist, but that he was hanging out with ""undesirables,"" the U.S. official said.  At a press conference Monday, the head of the FBI's field office in New York, Bill Sweeney, noted that the FBI had previously received ""a report of a domestic incident,"" adding that ""the allegations [were] recanted."" However, Sweeney did not address terrorism-related allegations.  It’s unclear if the FBI or other law enforcement agencies interviewed Rahami in 2014.  As in most suspicious activity report cases they review, the FBI found no significant derogatory information in Rahami's case, sources told ABC News.  In a statement today, the FBI acknowledged that in August 2014 they ""initiated an assessment of Ahmad Rahami based upon comments made by his father after a domestic dispute that were subsequently reported to authorities.""  ""The FBI conducted internal database reviews, interagency checks, and multiple interviews -- none of which revealed ties to terrorism,"" the statement said.  One source emphasized that only a single report came to authorities related to Rahami. Had more reports come in, authorities would have looked further at him, the source said, adding that the FBI does not have the resources to put every subject of a suspicious activity report under full-time surveillance.  ""We should not be keeping people under surveillance indefinitely"" when there is no solid reason, another U.S. official said, adding that doing so would violate Constitutional rights.  ""Our job together is to find those needles in a hay stack,"" FBI Director James Comey recently told lawmakers. ""In fact, our job is harder than that, it's to find pieces of hay in that haystack that may become a needle and disrupt them before they move from consuming to acting on that [online] poisonous propaganda.""  The FBI’s ability to assess potential terrorists came under intense scrutiny after Florida native Omar Mateen opened fire in Orlando’s Pulse nightclub in June, killing 49 people and injuring scores more.  In May 2013 the FBI had obtained sufficient information to open a preliminary investigation into Mateen — coworkers told authorities that Mateen had made terrorism-related comments at work. But after ten months of investigation, including two interviews with Mateen, the FBI determined there wasn’t enough information to indicate he was ""possibly a terrorist,"" as FBI Director James Comey put it after the Orlando attack.  Two months later, in July 2014, the FBI took another look at Mateen because his name ""surfaced"" in a separate terrorism investigation, Comey told reporters. Mateen was interviewed again, but authorities found no reason to continue tracking him."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		9	37	121.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036582596439966	"Following the shooting death of an unarmed black man by a police officer in Tulsa, Oklahoma, last Friday, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton spoke out today against police violence.  “This horrible shooting again. How many times do we have to see this in our country? In Tulsa, an unarmed man with his hands in the air,” Clinton said, calling into ""The Steve Harvey Morning Show.""  Forty-year-old Terence Crutcher was fatally shot by a white police officer after his SUV stalled on the road. Video of the incident released after the shooting appears to show Crutcher with his hands raised in the air.  40-Year-Old Man Killed by Tulsa Officer Friday Had Hands Up Moments Before Fatal Shooting, Video Shows What We Know About the Terence Crutcher Police Shooting in Tulsa, Oklahoma Calling the act “unbearable” and saying officer-involved shootings “need to be intolerable,” Clinton appealed to a white audience to address unconscious discrimination.  ""Maybe I can, by speaking directly to white people, say look, this is not who we are. We have got to do everything possible to improve policing, to go right at implicit bias,"" she said.   Follow  Hillary Clinton _ @HillaryClinton Another unarmed Black man was shot in a police incident. This should be intolerable. We have so much work to do. #TerenceCrutcher -H 10:35 AM - 20 Sep 2016   11,810 11,810 Retweets   24,524 24,524 likes Clinton’s policy proposal for criminal justice reform includes developing national standards on police officers’ use of force, supporting legislation to end racial profiling, and committing $1 billion in funding to training programs and research to “tackle” implicit bias.  ABC News’ Julia Jacobo and Josh Haskell contributed to this report."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		45	273	701.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036644986433727	"With seven weeks until Election Day, Hillary Clinton and her allies are set to outspend Donald Trump and his allies by wide margins during the homestretch.  A whopping 95 percent of all campaign television ad spending scheduled between today and Election Day — more than $143 million worth — comes from Clinton’s team, according to an ABC News analysis of CMAG/Kantar Media data.  Team Clinton will spend $143.2 million on television ads, versus only $6.8 million for Team Trump.  The difference in future spending in key battleground states is even starker — with Team Clinton slated to spend 53 times as much as Team Trump on television ads in Florida between now and Nov. 8.  In Florida, Clinton is spending $36.6 million, versus just under $700,000 for Trump. The differences continue in Ohio ($20.9 million versus $1.8 million), Pennsylvania ($18.8 million versus $1.5 million) and North Carolina ($14.3 million versus $1.3 million.)  Those are crucial states for Trump’s campaign. If he wins all four, he will almost certainly land in the White House. If he loses even one, it will be very difficult for Clinton to lose the general election. Recent polling in these states has shown a tight matchup but a lead for Clinton in Pennsylvania.  While ads for the campaigns are guaranteed to be at lower prices during these final 60 days, outside groups can get charged steep prices. That’s why it’s important that Priorities USA Action has already scheduled so many ads: It will be paying less than Trump’s outside groups — like the NRA and his super PACs — will be paying if they try to schedule ads now.  Clinton’s campaign is footing the bill for slightly more than half her scheduled television advertising, while Trump’s campaign is slated for about $4 in $10. Clinton’s behemoth super PAC accounts for virtually all the rest of pro-Clinton spending, and Trump’s spending is splintered among the NRA and two other super PACs.  Team Clinton has already spent $174 million on television ads during the general election, versus a mere $40 million for Trump and his allies. The contrast is also stark when comparing only the campaigns: $110.7 million for Clinton versus $18.7 million for Trump.  Team Clinton Future Ads  Florida: $36.6 million  Ohio: $20.9 million  Pennsylvania: $18.8 million  North Carolina: $14.3 million  Nevada: $10.1 million  New Hampshire: $7.3 million  Iowa: $7.1 million Colorado: $5.8 million  Virginia: $0.5 million  Nebraska: $0.2 million  National: $21.6 million  Total: $143.2 million Team Trump Future Ads Ohio: $1.8 million  Pennsylvania: $1.5 million  North Carolina: $1.3 million  Florida: $0.7 million  Colorado: $0.3 million  Iowa: $0.2 million  New Hampshire: $0.1 million  Maine: $0.1 million National: $0.6 million Total: $6.8 million "	9/20/16	link	mostly true		11	83	571.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1036675696430656	"The Clinton campaign has slammed Donald Trump as “a fraud who believes the rules don’t apply to him” over reports that the GOP presidential candidate used money from his charitable foundation to settle two lawsuits filed against his for-profit businesses.  The Washington Post reported today that Trump made two payments totaling $258,000 to settle suits — one involving the Mar-a-Lago Club, which he owns, in Florida and another involving one of his golf clubs in New York.  Clinton’s Camp Reacts  Clinton’s deputy communications director, Christina Reynolds, put out a statement after The Washington Post story was published, calling Trump a fraud.  “Clearly the Trump Foundation is as much a charitable organization as Trump University is an institute of higher education,” she said.  “Trump’s version of charity is taking money from others to settle his own legal issues ... which experts say is a clear violation of laws governing charitable organizations,” Reynolds said.  PHOTO: An American flag flies over Donald Trumps Mar-A-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. Lucien Capehart/Getty Images An American flag flies over Donald Trump's Mar-A-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. ABC News has reached out to the Trump campaign for comment.  What to Know About the Trump Foundation Under Investigation Inside Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Estate Where He’s ‘Done So Much for Equality’ Lloyd Mayer, a professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School, told ABC News that if the allegations made by the Post are true, the payments violate federal law.  PHOTO: Aerial view of Mar-a-Lago is seen here in Palm Beach, Florida. John Roca/NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images Aerial view of Mar-a-Lago is seen here in Palm Beach, Florida. “Federal tax law bars a private foundation like the Trump Foundation from using its assets to benefit its insiders or the businesses they own. That’s exactly what’s been alleged here. If true, the foundation and its managers, including Mr. Trump, violated tax laws,” Mayer told ABC News.  A Lawsuit Behind the Allegations  The lawsuit involving Mar-a-Lago, filed in 2007, revolved around a complaint by the town of Palm Beach over an oversize flagpole at the club.  Publicly available court documents show that as a condition of a settlement, “Mr. Trump will contribute $100,000 to charities agreed to between the parties” in return for the town’s waiving fines against Mar-a-Lago.  Another section of the court documents specified, “Mar-a-Lago shall contribute $100,000 to charities agreed to between parties dealing with Iraq War veterans, American flag or the local VA hospital.”  PHOTO: Real-estate mogul Donald Trump plays a round during an opening celebration for his latest venture, the Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York. Richard Corkery/NY Daily News Archive via Getty Images Real-estate mogul Donald Trump plays a round during an opening celebration for his latest venture, the Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, New York. more + In a September 2007 letter to the town, as reported by the Post, Trump wrote, “I have sent a check for $100,000 to Fisher House.  Although the court documents show that under the settlement, Trump or Mar-a-Lago would make the payment, the payment apparently instead came from the Trump Foundation.  Tax forms for the Trump Foundation show that in 2007 the charity gave $100,000 to Fisher House, an organization that helps pay for housing for veterans’ relatives when their loved ones are receiving medical treatment. It was one of only three $100,000 donations it made that year; the other two were to a New York hospital and a police athletic league.  Fisher House confirmed to ABC News that it received a $100,000 check from the foundation on Sept. 11, 2007. It does not have a copy of the check available.  Legal Questions  The IRS has strict rules on the operation of tax-exempt private foundations, including against what it calls self-dealing. To qualify for tax-exempt status, a foundation is required to demonstrate, among other things, that “no part of its net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual,” according to an online IRS publication.  Mayer noted that if the lawsuit settlement was paid for by Trump’s foundation, he wouldn’t be the first person to violate tax law in this way.  “It’s not unheard of for people to use their private foundations for their own benefit. Usually if the IRS learns about it, the insider has to pay a penalty tax and repay foundation with interest,” Mayer said.  It can be a civil action or a criminal violation, but Mayer has “never heard of anyone serving prison time for this kind of thing.”  “Here the foundation allegedly paid for a substantial benefit to Trump’s business — the dropping of lawsuits. That is clearly crossing the line. It’s not even close,” he said.  The Foundation Takes in Money Other Than Trump’s  The Trump Foundation takes in substantial donations from people and organizations, including until eight years ago Trump himself. In 2007, tax forms show that the charity had revenue of close to $4.1 million, from contributions, gifts and grants. Of that total, Trump donated $35,000.  Similarly, in 2008, Trump gave $30,000 to the foundation. In previous years, his contributions were bigger, ranging from $184,000 to $713,000. Trump made no donations to his foundation from 2009 to 2014, which is the last year for which records are available.  A few years after the Mar-a-Lago settlement, the foundation reportedly paid $158,000 to settle a lawsuit against one of Trump’s golf courses in New York, which led to a charitable donation by the foundation.  The foundation is under investigation by the New York Attorney General’s Office over a payment made to a political group associated with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, a Trump supporter who spoke at the Republican National Convention this summer.  A person familiar with the probe tells ABC News that the New York Attorney General’s Office is also investigating all the donations mentioned in the Post report.  The Clinton campaign’s Reynolds said in her statement, “Once again, Trump has proven himself a fraud who believes the rules don’t apply to him. It’s past time for him to release his tax returns to show whether his tax issues extend to his own personal finances.”  ABC News’ Liz Kreutz contributed to this report."	9/20/16	link	mostly true		35	243	811.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037005106397715	"Several protesters and a dozen police officers were injured, and about five people were arrested after violent protests erupted after a deadly police shooting in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Tuesday.   Follow  CMPD News _ @CMPD Approximately 12 officers injured. One officer hit in face with a rock 9:24 PM - 20 Sep 2016   520 520 Retweets   271 271 likes Officers in riot gear deployed tear gas into a crowd of protesters after individuals targeted police cruisers, ABC affiliate WSOC-TV Charlotte reported.  Early this morning the unrest raged on as a group of people blocked traffic on Interstate 85. A live video feed from a WSOC-TV helicopter above the scene appeared to show people removing items from the backs of trucks on the highway.  Slideshow: Violent Protests in Charlotte After Fatal Police Shooting The scene on I-85 appeared to devolve into looting, with people pulling items from tractor-trailers and burning boxes.  A group of people attempted to break into a Walmart, WSOC-TV reported, and scattered when police arrived at the scene.  At least seven civilians were transported to a local hospital, and a handful were treated.  View image on TwitterView image on TwitterView image on Twitter  Follow  Mark Barber _ @MBarberWSOC9 Charlotte police are now guarding the Walmart. Protesters smashed through several doors. @wsoctv 12:51 AM - 21 Sep 2016   172 172 Retweets   79 79 likes The shooting took place Tuesday afternoon after officers arrived at an apartment complex in Charlotte at about 4 p.m., searching for a suspect who had an outstanding warrant, a police statement said.    Follow  Kam @kamar_iii Proud to be part of the protest and hopefully a bigger movement. Give him justice. #keithscott 8:45 PM - 20 Sep 2016 · WT Harris @ Old Concord Rd   44 44 Retweets   90 90 likes Police said the man fatally shot, identified as Keith Lamont Scott, was not the suspect officers sought but had exited from a vehicle with a firearm and the officers believed he posed an imminent deadly threat.  Scott's family quickly challenged the police account of the shooting, saying that he was not armed and that he was holding a book and waiting for his son to be dropped off from school, WSOC-TV reports.  20 Sep  Joe Bruno _ @JoeBrunoWSOC9 Police say they recovered a weapon at the scene but family members say he wasn't armed  Follow  Joe Bruno _ @JoeBrunoWSOC9 The brother and sister of the man who was shot and killed told me he was reading and waiting for his son to be dropped off from school 7:37 PM - 20 Sep 2016   68 68 Retweets   22 22 likes Detectives say they recovered at the scene the firearm they believe Scott was holding at the time of the shooting, WSOC-TV reported.  Charlotte's Mayor Jennifer Roberts tweeted that ""the community deserves answers and full investigation will ensue"" and asked for calm as investigators work the case.   Follow  Mayor of Charlotte _ @CLTMayor The community deserves answers and full investigation will ensue. Will be reaching out to community leaders to work together @CMPD @ncnaacp 8:53 PM - 20 Sep 2016   387 387 Retweets   364 364 likes Police identified the officer involved in the shooting Brentley Vinson, who has been employed with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department since July 21, 2014, and is assigned to the metro division. Per standard procedure with any officer-involved shooting, he has been placed on paid administrative leave, police said.  As night fell in Charlotte, protesters blocked off a busy road and chanted ""Hands up, don't shoot!""   Both Vinson and Scott are African-American, a police source told WSOC-TV.  This is a breaking news story. Check back for updates."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		42	68	481.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037075549724004	"A photographer who says he took the Skittles photo used by Donald Trump Jr. in a tweet on the ""Syrian refugee problem,"" tells ABC News that he is himself a refugee.  ""I’m really really appalled by having my image, you know, on Twitter used against the refugees,"" said David Kittos, 48.  Trump Jr., the eldest son of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, posted a graphic on Twitter featuring an image of a bowl of Skittles, with a caption equating Syrian refugees to poisoned candy, which sparked outrage among many on social media.  “If I had a bowl of skittles and I told you just three would kill you. Would you take a handful?” the tweet's graphic says, ""That's our Syrian refugee problem.""  David Kittos, 48, who told ABC News he took the photo and who has what appears to be an identical image posted on Flickr from 2010, said, ""How someone could twist things, and I don’t know, use my image to compare some sort of poor refugee to a poison sort of Skittle, that is just really beyond belief.""  Donald Trump Jr. Compares Syrian Refugees to Skittles Donald Trump Jr.'s Skittles Tweet Highlights His Key Campaign Role Kittos, who said he lives in the United Kingdom and left Cyprus as a refugee when he was 6, claims that he was not asked permission for use of his photo.  ""I haven’t put the image for sale, and it was all rights reserved, so no, I wasn’t really expecting anyone to want to take it,"" Kittos said. ""I have had stuff stolen before but when I got an email from some news website I was sort of really annoyed and disgusted to be honest.""  Kittos told ABC News he does photography as a hobby and took the Skittles photo while experimenting with different flash techniques in his living room six years ago, never expecting it to become part of a political campaign.  The plight of refugees is an issue close to Kittos, who recalls fleeing Cyprus as a child.  ""We all had to kind of just take our stuff and run away. It was quite frightening for all people who had to do it, especially for the people who actually lost family and not just their belongings,"" he said.  If he could talk to Donald Trump, Kittos said he would ask him to apologize to Syrian refugees. ""But I don’t expect he will do that,"" he said.  The Trump campaign responded to a question about the photo with a more general comment on the controversy over the tweet.  ""America has become less safe under Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and Clinton's planned 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees is a dangerous proposal that will put American lives at risk,"" the campaign's senior communications adviser, Jason Miller, said in a statement.  ""Speaking the truth might upset those who would rather be politically correct than safe, but the American people want a change, and only Donald Trump will do what's needed to protect us,"" the statement said.   "	9/21/16	link	mostly true		7	63	271.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037112079720351	"Neal West stood outside Bernie Sanders’ event at Kent State University on Saturday and asked people leaving to consider voting for the Green Party’s candidate, Jill Stein, though he knew full well that inside, the senator had repeated his call for his fans to vote for Clinton.  West said that he voted for Sanders in the primary and that, in his opinion, Stein was closer to Sanders than Clinton on the issues. As he passed out flyers, he rejected the key argument from Sanders that in a battleground state like Ohio, where polls have the two major candidates neck and neck, he should vote for Clinton to stave off a Trump win.  “If the Democratic Party had chosen a candidate that everybody would support, then there wouldn’t be an issue at all with Trump winning,” he said. Asked specifically if he worried about Trump winning, West went on: “That has nothing to do with me.”  It remains to be seen whether Bernie Sanders, the choice candidate on many college campuses during the primary season, will be an effective surrogate for Hillary Clinton, who urgently needs the student and millennial vote. While stumping for Clinton at two universities in Ohio over the weekend, Sanders spent minimal time making a case for Clinton, but instead focused his remarks on why voters should reject her opponent.  Sanders spoke passionately against Donald Trump. He accused the Republican Party nominee of rejecting science and trying to delegitimize Barack Obama’s presidency.  “You want to disagree with Obama? Disagree with Obama. But do not go around putting a lot of money into trying to tell the American people that because we have an African American who happens to be president today that he is not a legitimate president,” the senator said while speaking at Akron University. “That is an awful and divisive and terrible thing to do.”  But when talking about his former primary opponent, the Vermont senator primarily compared Clinton to Trump or listed ways in which she agrees with his own signature policy proposals on college affordability and health care.  “Hillary Clinton and I believe that the time is now to ask the wealthiest people and the largest corporations to start paying their fair share of taxes,” he said during his swing through the battleground state.  However, recent polling suggests that when it comes to winning the youth vote (a key demographic for President Obama) perhaps Clinton’s greatest challenge is not Trump, but other third-party candidates.  In the most recent ABC News/Washington Post poll, only 40 percent of adults under 30 years old backed Clinton in the general election -- a stark contrast from the 60 percent that Obama won in 2012. This is largely because one in three adults under 30 say they plan to vote for Gary Johnson or Jill Stein -- or not vote at all.  But enthusiasm also matters: even months after the Democratic primary process wrapped up, 60 percent of Democratic adults under 30 say they wish that Bernie Sanders had won the nomination. In fact, only a quarter of them say they wanted Clinton to win the nod.  During a listening tour across the state of Ohio, ABC News found that college students were much quicker to bring up the third-party options.  Ohio State University Students on What Matters in the 2016 Election Battleground State Polls Show Tight Races Between Trump and Clinton Before hitting the campaign trail again, Sanders specifically urged his supporters not to back third-party candidates.  “Now is not the time to be supporting a protest vote,” he said during an interview on MSNBC. “Right now we have to make sure Trump does not become president and Clinton is the person to beat him.”  During a campaign stop at Temple University on Tuesday, Clinton appealed to students who may still have reservations about her.  “Even if you are totally opposed to Donald Trump you may still have some questions about me. I get that,” she said. “And I want to do my best to answer those questions.”  While speaking on campuses, both Clinton and Sanders emphasized getting to the polls. Sanders told students they should not just vote, but volunteer and get involved with politics.  “If we have a large voter turnout, for Secretary Clinton and Ted Strickland [the Democratic nominee for Senate in Ohio] here in Ohio and the entire nation will be very gratified for what you do,"" Sanders said. "	9/21/16	link	mostly true		3	98	361.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037167203048172	"Donald Trump's presidential campaign paid former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski's company $20,000 in consulting fees in August, campaign filings show.  Lewandowski was fired as Trump’s campaign manager on June 20 after a series of missteps that included a physical confrontation with a reporter and being charged with battery over an altercation with protesters at a rally. The battery charges were later dropped.  Days after the firing, CNN hired Lewandowski as an on-air political commentator, a position he holds currently.  Trump's campaign finance filing shows a $20,000 payment made to Lewandowski's company, Green Monster Consulting, LLC, on August 11 for the purpose of ""strategy consulting.""  “Corey Lewandowski, who is no longer involved in the campaign, continues to receive monthly severance payments,"" the campaign said in a statement. ""The campaign will continue to honor its contract with Mr. Lewandowski, which stipulates he will be paid through the end of the year. These payments are in no way compensation for services rendered.”  ABC News had previously reported the rapprochement between the fired employee and the presidential candidate.  Each day, Trump wakes up, usually in his Fifth Avenue penthouse, and has a routine round of phone calls, sources told ABC News last month. The calls include his campaign leadership, his children, some close allies and, quite frequently, Lewandowski.  “They talk almost every day,” one senior level campaign staffer said, requesting anonymity."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		4	52	181.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037217126376513	"Former President George H.W. Bush said he will be voting for Hillary Clinton at a reception for the Points of Light Foundation in Kennebunkport, Maine, on Monday, a source told ABC News.  Bush made the declaration in front of about 40 people in attendance at the reception, according to the source.  Kathleen Hartington Kennedy Townsend, a former Maryland lieutenant governor and daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, first posted on Facebook Monday about the 41st president's apparent intentions to vote for Clinton, sharing a photo of herself and Bush, and writing, ""The President told me he’s voting for Hillary!!""  Townsend later told Politico she met with Bush, 92, in Maine on Monday, where he told her about his preference in this year’s ballot. ""That's what he said,"" she told Politico.  Report: George HW Bush to Vote for Hillary Clinton Donald Trump Jr.'s Skittles Tweet Highlights His Key Campaign Role Obama Evokes Donald Trump's Wall in Final UN General Assembly Speech as President Townsend is a member of the advisory board of the Points of Light Foundation.  ""The vote President Bush will cast as a private citizen in some 50 days will be just that: a private vote cast in some 50 days,"" a spokesman for Bush told ABC News. ""He is not commenting on the presidential race in the interim."""	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		35	344	481.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037268776371348	"U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry made an impassioned plea in front of the United Nations Security Council today for all sides in the Syrian conflict to live up to their obligations under a cease-fire agreement. The move may be the best chance for the U.S. to help bring an end to the violence, humanitarian crisis and displacement of thousands of Syrians.  Kerry's determination to restore the cease-fire comes in wake of the most flagrant yet of the violations: Two days ago, a United Nations humanitarian aid convoy headed to opposition-held areas of Aleppo was destroyed in a prolonged airstrike.  A Syrian Refugee Family Begins Again in California US Blasts Russia for Calling Emergency UN Meeting Over Syria Bombing ""On Monday, 20 aid workers were killed in an outrageous, sustained, two-hour attack directed at a fully authorized humanitarian mission near Aleppo — fully authorized,"" Kerry told the Security Council this morning. ""All of the permits had been given. Everybody was on notice.""  U.S. officials believe Russian aircraft, not Syrian, were responsible for the strike but have yet to publicly accuse Moscow. Yesterday the White House said it could have been only Russians or the Syrian regime and that either way, Russia is accountable for the strikes, given its leverage over Syria and its commitments under the cease-fire.  In spite of all this, rather than abandon the cease-fire, Kerry today urged the Syrian regime to adhere to its terms, calling for the grounding of all regime aircraft.  ""Our purpose in this negotiation was to put an end to the kind of horrific and indiscriminate attacks that have been the primary cause of fear, of suffering, of displacement,"" Kerry said. ""And under our plan, all of this could be quickly accompanied by serious negotiations between the parties, aimed at a political transition and a conclusion to the conflict.""  Meanwhile, the Russians have released a series of conflicting statements in an effort to justify the strike on the U.N. convoy. They suggested at one point the convoy was accompanied by an armed opposition vehicle and most recently suggested the strike might have been carried out by a U.S. drone flying in the region. The U.S. Defense Department quickly denied that, saying it doesn't fly aircraft over that area of Syria.  Moscow has yet to respond to Kerry's request to ground all regime aircraft, but negotiations will likely continue through the rest of the week at the U.N. General Assembly in New York. Members of the International Syria Support Group are expected to convene again in the coming days.  ""The future of Syria is hanging by a thread, and I urge this council not to give up,"" Kerry said today. ""And I urge the entire international community to get behind the best chance that we have yet had to reduce the violence, to provide humanitarian assistance and to open up the space for negotiations."""	9/21/16	link	mostly true		7	35	71.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037288223036070	"First lady Michelle Obama has reacted publicly for the first time to the controversy over Melania Trump’s speech at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland earlier this summer, when the GOP presidential nominee’s wife was accused of using parts of Obama’s 2008 Democratic National Convention speech.  Appearing on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” Obama was pressed by the comedian whether she feels any sympathy for the spouses of presidential candidates.  While she initially signaled she did not have any sympathy for Trump or Bill Clinton, Colbert pressed Obama by citing the example of the criticism surrounding the plagiarism episode.  “Melania Trump was so criticized for using what turned out to be a portion of your speech. But do you have any sympathy? Because there are people around her creating things, and I have some sympathy for her,” Colbert said. “Do you understand how that might be sympathetic for what happened to her?”  “Yeah,” Obama finally admitted, clearly not amused by the continued questioning. “That was tough.”  Melania Trump’s Speech Sparks Plagiarism Claims Here’s the Michelle Obama Speech From Which Melania Trump Is Accused of Cribbing Donald Trump Jr. Says Apology to Michelle Obama Not Necessary for Speech Likenesses Colbert picked up on Obama’s evident irritation, as she was not smiling, and quickly moved on to discuss her signature project, Let Girls Learn, which aims to educate girls around the globe who do not have access to education.  Earlier in the interview, the first lady called her family’s final days in the White House “bittersweet.”  “Everything’s, like, the last, and I find myself choking up because we have raised our kids in the White House,” she said. “We’ve had so many amazing experiences. We have a phenomenal staff. We live in a house where people love us and care about us, and, you know, we’re going to be walking away from all of that.”"	9/21/16	link	mostly true		11	147	471.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037299089701650	"The latest national presidential poll has some encouraging news for the campaign of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, showing a 6-point lead for her over Republican candidate Donald Trump.  Clinton received 43 percent support from likely voters in the poll, from NBC and The Wall Street Journal, compared with Trump's 37 percent. Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson maintained his third position with 9 percent, and Green Party nominee Jill Stein trailed with 3 percent.  In a head-to-head matchup, Clinton's lead expands to 7 points over Trump, 48 to 41. The margin of error of the poll is 3.2 percentage points.  After the Democratic National Convention in July, polls showed Clinton's lead over Trump ballooning to upward of 10 points in early August before returning to tighter margins in recent weeks.  Surveys by Fox News and CBS/New York Times last week showed a spread between the two candidates within the polls' margin of error.  George HW Bush Says He'll Vote for Hillary Clinton: Source Can Bernie Sanders Help Deliver the Youth Vote for Hillary Clinton? Today's numbers give Clinton her largest margin since Aug. 31, when a Fox News poll gave her a 6-point edge.  Clinton received more support than usual from registered male voters in the NBC/Wall Street Journal poll. Trump maintained higher levels of backing from the demographic, garnering 46 percent support to Clinton's 44 percent, but the difference is much narrower than in earlier polls.  In additional questions, respondents expressed concern about Trump's words and actions on the campaign trail, with 69 percent of those surveyed reporting that they have reservations about aspects of his campaign, with 54 percent saying they have ""major"" concerns.  Specifically, 33 percent of likely voters reported dismay over Trump's temperament; 27 percent said his comments about women, immigrants and Muslims worry them the most; and 13 percent were most disturbed by his compliments for Russian President Vladimir Putin.  On the Democratic side, Clinton's use of a private email server while secretary of state continued to bother voters; 64 percent expressed concern about the issue.  ABC's Ryan Struyk contributed to this report."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		32	557	1431.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037352739696285	"In a bloody page in the journal purportedly found on Ahmad Rahami when he was captured, the New York and New Jersey bombing suspect appears to praise major terrorist figures, including the main spokesman for ISIS.  A reference to ""Brother Adnani,"" presumably referring to the late Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, is the first public evidence that ISIS, as well as al-Qaeda, may have inspired Rahami's alleged violent acts.  ""I looked for guidance and [praise be to God] guidance came. Sheikh Anwar[,] Brother Adnani ... said it clearly attack the kuffar [unbelievers] in their backyard,"" the page says. ""Sheikh Anwar"" is likely a reference to influential American-born al-Qaeda cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who was killed in a U.S. drone strike five years ago.  NYC Explosion: Buying Bomb Parts Through eBay Pentagon Confirms Death of Chief ISIS Spokesman Abu Muhammad al-Adnani FBI Searching for 2 Men Related to Bombing Investigation Elsewhere in the journal, Rahami purportedly praised al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden and 2009 Fort Hood shooter Nadal Hasan, according to a criminal complaint filed against Rahami late Tuesday, which doesn't mention al-Adnani.  The Pentagon said al-Adnani was killed in a U.S. airstrike in Syria in late August. Before his death, he served as the primary spokesman for ISIS and often encouraged Western Muslims to conduct attacks in their home countries.  ""If you can kill a disbelieving American or European ... then rely on Allah and kill them in any manner or way, however it may be,"" Adnani said in an audio message two years ago.  ISIS has not released any claim of responsibility for the bombings in New York, where 31 people were injured, and New Jersey, where no one was hurt."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	9	111.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037391213025771		9/21/16	link	mostly true		12	144	1021.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037410216357204		9/21/16	link	mostly true		8	31	71.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037433849688174		9/21/16	link	mostly true		61	196	731.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037464359685123		9/22/16	link	mostly true		9	52	171.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037489569682602		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	76	651.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037749336323292		9/22/16	link	mostly true		9	111	301.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037856692979223		9/22/16	link	mostly true		18	46	211.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037886152976277		9/22/16	link	mostly true		28	84	271.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037919132972979		9/22/16	link	mostly true		5	55	241.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1037951726303053		9/22/16	link	mostly true		48	194	751.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038000319631527		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	58	31.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038031976295028		9/22/16	link	mostly true		3	16	41.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038059326292293		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2	63	161.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038086542956238		9/22/16	link	mostly true		13	50	251.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038114256286800		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	181	281.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038150182949874		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	56	101.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038186959612863		9/22/16	link	mostly true		13	115	441.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038501679581391		9/23/16	link	mostly true		12	147	541.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038541676244058		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5	28	51.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038542892910603		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3	99	161.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038577226240503		9/23/16	link	mostly true		22	115	101.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038636096234616		9/23/16	link	mostly true		9	107	211.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038699376228288		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1	41	31.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038757716222454		9/23/16	link	mostly true		6	21	81.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038777582887134		9/23/16	link	mostly true		20	108	461.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038804176217808		9/23/16	link	mostly true		9	74	211.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038834739548085		9/23/16	link	mostly true		81	748	1541.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038860559545503		9/23/16	link	mostly true		21	160	261.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038891872875705		9/23/16	link	mostly true		7	59	91.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038922299539329		9/23/16	link	mostly true		6	22	81.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038926896205536		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5	61	221.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038949176203308		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	28	41.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038973039534255		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	44	321.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1038984299533129		9/23/16	link	mostly true		60	262	311.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1040988309332728		9/26/16	link	mostly true		5	45	291.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041035462661346		9/26/16	link	mostly true		14	261	591.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041085625989663		9/26/16	link	mostly true		11	63	241.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041131422651750		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2	26	231.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041172582647634		9/26/16	link	mostly true		7	19	51.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041225769308982		9/26/16	link	mostly true		8	22	291.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041248449306714		9/26/16	link	mostly true		15	94	541.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041281559303403	"Tonight's presidential debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump is must-see TV, and many celebrities will be watching from home, as well as from the front row.  Billionaire entrepreneur and ""Shark Tank"" co-star Mark Cuban has confirmed that he will be taking a front-row seat at the debate at Hofstra University on Long Island in New York to cheer on Team Hillary.  Just got a front row seat to watch @HillaryClinton overwhelm @realDonaldTrump at the ""Humbling at Hofstra"" on Monday. It Is On !  — Mark Cuban (@mcuban) September 23, 2016 ""Obviously, I'm a not a Trump fan. I am a Clinton fan,"" Cuban told ABC News today at the red carpet season premiere of ""Shark Tank."" ""I think she'd make a great president.  ""I don't think he's got the skill set,"" he said about Trump. ""Let's put it this way, if he came on 'Shark Tank,' I wouldn't make the investment. I just don't see him as being capable in the least bit.""  Trump quickly responded to the news by tweeting that he was considering inviting Gennifer Flowers, the variety show performer who famously had an affair with Bill Clinton before he became president.   Follow  Donald J. Trump _ @realDonaldTrump If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right alongside of him! 10:08 AM - 24 Sep 2016   30,871 30,871 Retweets   63,812 63,812 likes Although Trump's campaign manager told ABC News' George Stephanopoulos that Trump did not actually invite Flowers, it seems she was willing to accept the invitation.   Follow  Gennifer Flowers @gennflowers Hi Donald. You know I'm in your corner and will definitely be at the debate!...__ 12:28 PM - 24 Sep 2016   10,875 10,875 Retweets   19,154 19,154 likes Donald Trump Troll Mark Cuban Well Positioned for 1st Presidential Debate Who Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump Invited to the First Presidential Debate Meanwhile, other celebrities are gearing up to watch the first debate between the two candidates. Here's what they are saying on social media:  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Katy Perry _ @katyperry Ready for #mudslingmonday #YOUGOTTHISHRC 7:15 AM - 26 Sep 2016   2,844 2,844 Retweets   10,395 10,395 likes  Follow  Marianne Williamson _ @marwilliamson May angels stand guard at the debate tonight. Sending love, blessing, protection, hope... 9:37 AM - 26 Sep 2016   64 64 Retweets   341 341 likes  Follow  Ellen Barkin _ @EllenBarkin My goal in life is to refrain from tweeting during debate. as the kiddies say #lifegoals 8:31 PM - 25 Sep 2016   5 5 Retweets   27 27 likes View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Debra Messing _ @DebraMessing I feel like something BIG is going to happen tomorrow. 6:56 PM - 25 Sep 2016   1,205 1,205 Retweets   4,591 4,591 likes  Follow  Kirstie Alley _ @kirstiealley 1. Will U be watching the debate tomorrow? 2. Will you be watching with an open mind or is your mind made up? 3. What snack will U B having? 2:35 PM - 25 Sep 2016   35 35 Retweets   216 216 likes  Follow  Charlie Daniels _ @CharlieDaniels Why would they schedule a debate on a Monday Night Football Night?? Guess it makes sense to somebody. 10:59 AM - 25 Sep 2016   49 49 Retweets   187 187 likes  Follow  George Takei _ @GeorgeTakei For the debates on Monday, I'm thinking of serving skewers. With Cheetos and skittles for munchies, of course. 5:40 PM - 24 Sep 2016   256 256 Retweets   1,101 1,101 likes  Follow  George Takei _ @GeorgeTakei To level the field at the debates tonight, Hillary Clinton will be administered anesthesia, and all questions will be read to her in German. 5:39 AM - 26 Sep 2016   704 704 Retweets   2,100 2,100 likes  Follow  carl reiner _ @carlreiner Can not wait to watch the Trump - Clinton debate,this Monday..I'm betting that the shorter of the two blonds will prevail.. 11:31 PM - 23 Sep 2016   84 84 Retweets   705 705 likes  Follow  Bette Midler _ @BetteMidler Only 50 more days til we find out who's our next President! Last time I was nauseous 50 days straight, at least I got a baby out of it! 2:05 PM - 21 Sep 2016   1,086 1,086 Retweets   5,024 5,024 likes"	9/26/16	link	no factual content		2	50	341.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041389565959269		9/26/16	link	mostly true		29	133	361.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041488142616078		9/26/16	link	mostly true		10	82	61.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041531655945060		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	22	175	671.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041535642611328		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	10	97	391.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041543859277173	"Hillary Clinton used the first presidential debate of the general-election season to launch a full frontal attack on Donald Trump, baiting him into fights over his personal finances, taxes, sexism, race relations, business dealings and personal honesty.  If Clinton came looking for a fight, she found it. Her aggressive tone drew Trump in.  He attacked Clinton right back, showing flashes of anger that channeled public frustration and also the coarser side of his public persona.  It made for some lively exchanges, including several that brought an edge to Trump’s tone.  “She doesn’t have the look,” Trump said toward the end of the debate. “She doesn’t have the stamina.”  Trump appeared rattled at times, particularly as the debate wore on. Yet his main attacks on Clinton were rooted in policy grounds, as he sought to give voice to public anger not just at Clinton but at the broader political class.  “You’ve been doing this for 30 years — why are you just thinking about these solutions now?” Trump said in a section of the debate about ways to create jobs.  “I have thought about this quite a bit,” Clinton countered.  “Yeah, for 30 years,” Trump responded.  Trump stretched facts and attacked Clinton’s temperament. He — for the most part — kept his cool.  Debate Fact-Check: How Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton Stack Up First Presidential Debate: 10 Moments That Mattered Most Memorable Lines of the First Presidential Debate Throughout the debate, Clinton called Trump “Donald.” He almost always referred to her as “Secretary Clinton” and made sure that was all right with her.  “I want you to be very happy. It’s very important to me,” Trump said, challenging the fact-checkers once again.  Trump was brought onto his shakiest ground of the night when moderator Lester Holt brought up President Barack Obama’s birthplace — specifically why it took Trump until just weeks ago to declare the matter settled.  Trump flatly said, “I say nothing” to those who wonder why he pushed the matter as long as he did. And he falsely accused Clinton of starting the birther question in 2007, claiming credit for putting the issue to rest.  “Just like she can’t bring back jobs, she can’t produce” Obama’s birth certificate, Trump said.  Clinton pounced on an issue with resonance among black voters and other parts of the Obama coalition.  “It can’t be dismissed that easily. He has really started his political activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an American citizen,” she said. “The birther lie was a very hurtful one.”  Apparently worried that Trump would be on his best behavior, Clinton started her barrage early. She suggested that Trump’s success is inherited, and that he’s hiding his tax returns to avoid embarrassment.  “Maybe he’s not as rich as he says he is,” she said. “Maybe he’s not as charitable as he claims to be.”  Trump didn’t even bother to deny Clinton’s suggestion that he hasn’t paid income taxes “for a lot of years,” turning even that into an argument against the status quo.  “It would be squandered too, believe me,” Trump said.  Clinton also found a groove in attacking Trump on Iraq. Trump again insisted that he was against the Iraq War before it started, a statement for which there is no public record in support of his claim.  For his part, Trump took Clinton on consistently, attacking her on jobs, trade and national security, using her as a stand-in for politicians in general.  “I have a feeling that by the end of this evening, I’m going to be blamed for everything that ever happened,” Clinton said at one point.  Trump: “Why not?”  Clinton: “Just join the debate by saying more crazy things.”  Clinton had one of her better moments in declaring her fitness for office, keying off of Trump’s criticism of her for retreating from the campaign trail.  “Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. And yes, I did,” she said. “And you know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president. And I think that’s a good thing.”  Later in the debate, Trump allowed that Clinton has experience, “but it’s bad experience,” he said.  “This country can't afford to have another four years of that kind of experience,” Trump said.  After the first extraordinary encounter between two extraordinarily unpopular nominees, the plays are clear. Clinton is putting her experience up against the anger Trump is channeling, anger that has two distinct sides to it.  They proved they can get under each other’s skin. But neither candidate proved that he or she has a winning message, not on the night of the first debate."	9/26/16	link	no factual content	yes	228	447	1471.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041832262581666		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	25	184	561.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041861279245431		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	8	137	671.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041943452570547		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	3	66	331.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1041988969232662		9/27/16	link	mostly true		21	185	691.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042018955896330		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	19	332	681.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042112815886944		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	14	184	1071.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042165485881677		9/27/16	link	mostly true		76	387	591.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042203689211190		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	76	91.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042236372541255		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	29	61.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042266479204911		9/27/16	link	mostly true		9	39	81.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042295002535392		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	5	68	421.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042315892533303		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	65	461	901.84E+14	1.04E+15	mainstream	ABC News Politics	https://www.facebook.com/ABCNewsPolitics/posts/1042362422528650		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1	19	31.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446522352054899		9/19/16	link	mostly true		130	1032	3821.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446620375378430	"Eric Trump makes up one-half of the Trump Brothers Brain trust, a pair of imbeciles who think continuing to make mediocre business deals off of their grandfather’s inheritance and shooting endangered animals make them too cool for their own shoes. They have their father’s racism, narcissism and anus-shaped mouth. They denigrate women, are completely out of touch with reality and manage to post the dumbest things imaginable on social media.  In short, they are a liberal troll’s dream.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Today’s story is about Eric. He may not have been lucky enough to score his father’s name like his brother but he did manage to come into the world looking far more like Lord Cheeto than his older sibling. He has the hair and the punchable face to go with the anus mouth and nasty, spoiled brat disposition.  Little Oompa Loompa took to Twitter recently and posted what I can only assume is his greatest accomplishment in life:   View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Eric Trump _ @EricTrump When you are the answer to a crossword clue! #SoCool 10:33 AM - 18 Sep 2016   180 180 Retweets   835 835 likes Isn’t that special? He is very, very cool, by anyone’s standards. According to this very puzzle, he ranks right up there with free wifi, pushup bras and Bozo. Though I really must admit, Bozo was pretty cool. No Trump is nearly as cool as Bozo.   Follow  Mary Hartman @montesgrandma @EricTrump Little minds are amused so easily.__ 12:34 PM - 18 Sep 2016   25 25 Retweets   95 95 likes That says it all, doesn’t it?  The biggest mistake little Eric made here is not offering the question that was asked. That, of course, left the door open for hilarity to come storming through:   Follow  ThisLandIsMyLand @OutOfManyOneUSA @EricTrump  Was the clue: Dumber son resembling young Voldemort? 10:37 AM - 18 Sep 2016   12 12 Retweets   53 53 likes  Follow  DalekBreath @Applan69 @EricTrump the clue was "" the stupidest son of the orange con man"" 11:14 AM - 18 Sep 2016   2 2 Retweets   9 9 likes  Follow  Steve Dreifuss @foos1234 @EricTrump what's the answer racist or bigot I've got to know Eric 11:14 AM - 18 Sep 2016   3 3 Retweets   3 3 likes  Follow  blueidaho @svskier1 @EricTrump was the question - name trumps most racist son? 10:39 AM - 18 Sep 2016 · Hailey, ID   6 6 Retweets   9 9 likes  Follow  Joey Powers @JoeyPolitix @EricTrump WOW YOUR LIFE IS AMAZING. Was the clue ""greasy & feckless""? 11:33 AM - 18 Sep 2016   10 10 Retweets   15 15 likes Those are some of the better ones. You can peruse the tweet’s replies yourself for more, or join in the fun like I did with one of my toy accounts:  wilekenmeyer  Yes, I know…I spelled “principal” like the person who gave you detention in middle school. I was speed trolling and trust me…Eric Trump will never know the difference."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		241	2027	2261.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446625628711238	"In a particularly tense interview on CNN, Trump was called out for saying that Hillary Clinton is a “bigot.” When he was asked for any particular reasons on why, he just couldn’t explain himself. He tried to pivot away from the question at hand and made himself look really foolish.  Here is the exchange:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel  Anderson Cooper: You’ve previously called Hillary Clinton  a bigot. How is she a bigot?  Trump: Well, she’s a bigot.  Anderson Cooper: But, how is she bigoted? Bigotry is having a hatred towards a particular group.  Trump: She’s not doing anything for those communities.  Anderson Cooper: (Again) So, you’re saying she has hatred or dislike of black people?  Trump: Her policies are bigoted.  Anderson Cooper: But, you said her policies are “personally bigoted.”  Trump: Oh she is. Of course she is. She’s totally bigoted there’s no question about that.  Anderson Cooper: But, it does imply that she has antipathy, that she has hatred toward, I guess in this case you’re talking about African-Americans, but I don’t want to put words in your mouth. But, is hatred at the core of that? Or dislike of African-Americans?  Trump: Or maybe she’s lazy."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		991	3087	3131.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446671962039938		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1190	5112	2931.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446692758704525		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1018	4388	1221.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446693125371155		9/19/16	link	mostly true		375	3015	881.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446716095368858		9/19/16	link	mostly true		557	1597	2251.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446717032035431		9/19/16	link	mostly true		894	3454	3251.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1446984445342023		9/19/16	link	mostly true		132	866	1831.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447242135316254		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1138	5281	3181.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447249158648885	"Reince Priebus openly threatened Kasich and other Republicans that they better blindly support Donald Trump or face the end of their careers. John Kasich doesn’t give a shit about Priebus’ pathetic threats.  On Sunday, the GOP Chair suggested that Republicans who don’t fall in line behind Trump could be severely punished in their endeavors to seek election or re-election.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “Those people need to get on board,” Priebus told Face The Nation:  “And if they’re thinking they’re going to run again someday, I think that we’re going to evaluate the process — of the nomination process and I don’t think it’s going to be that easy for them. In order to be on the ballot in South Carolina, you actually have to pledge your support to the nominee, no matter who that person is. So what’s the penalty for that? It’s not a threat, but that’s just the question that we have a process in place.”  Kasich has repeatedly refused to endorse Donald Trump and did not take kindly to Priebus’ threat, issuing a brutal response through his spokesman John Weaver.  “Thankfully, there are still leaders in this country who put principles before politics. The idea of a greater purpose beyond oneself may be alien to political party bosses like Reince Priebus, but it is at the center of everything Governor Kasich does…The Governor is traveling the nation supporting down ballot Republicans and preventing a potential national wipeout from occurring on Reince’s watch.”  Weaver also added that Priebus should be thanking Kasich.  So the next time John Kasich seeks re-election or high office it’s going to be interesting to watch how Priebus responds. Will he follow through on his threat or will he do an about-face and all of a sudden support Kasich?  Threatening someone with political ruin just because they don’t support the terrible choice of nominee your party made sounds more like what dictators or fascists do. It’s definitely not the hallmark of a party that supposedly supports our democracy. Because by trying to force Republicans to vote a certain way, they are undermining democracy and all the values this country was founded upon.  If anyone deserves political backlash, it’s Reince Priebus. He created a political atmosphere so toxic that they now have Trump as their leader. The Republicans standing against Trump are the sane ones.  Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images"	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		1145	6552	5621.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447270141980120	"The city of Flint, Michigan is suffering through a horrible man-made disaster that could have been easily prevented if state Republicans hadn’t been so careless.  After placing Flint under state control, officials chose to save money by switching the city’s drinking water from Lake Huron to the Flint River, which has not been the drinking water source for decades because it was poisoned and considered unsafe for human consumption.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel As a result, the city has been devastated by lead poisoning, which will have terrible consequences for years to come for the children who ingested the tainted water.  Understandably, Flint is mad as hell so they decided to take the state to court. But because Michigan Republicans and Governor Rick Snyder are rats who hate democracy and justice, they shut down any potential lawsuit by stripping Flint of the power to sue.  According to the Detroit Free Press:  Though Flint has not been under a state-appointed emergency manager since April 2015, the state still exerts partial control over the city through a five-member Receivership Transition Advisory Board, whose members are appointed by Gov. Rick Snyder.  The board moved quickly to change the rules under which Flint is governed so that the city cannot file a lawsuit without first getting approval from that state-appointed board.  This is absolutely outrageous. It’s like a woman having to get permission to file a lawsuit from the company whose CEO raped her.  Michigan Republicans should not have the power to take away anyone’s right to seek redress through the court system. It sounds like they are just scared that they will lose the case. And frankly, they should be.  After all, it was their decisions that led to Flint being poisoned with tainted water and the cover-up that followed. The city of Flint absolutely should be able to sue the state in open court. But Republicans took that power away from Flint, and you can be damn sure that they would love to do that in every city across all fifty states if they have their way.  Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images"	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		8466	7584	13431.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447381958635605		9/19/16	link	mostly true		827	3491	1611.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447394558634345		9/19/16	link	mostly true		426	2475	1241.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447438628629938	"I woke up this morning to find a variation of this headline splashed all over my news feed:  Bill Clinton: ‘Natural’ For Foundation Donors to Seek Favors  Here’s Google:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Screen Shot 2016-09-19 at 10.28.21 AM  Naturally, my reaction was “oh, s**t, what did Bill Clinton do to damage his wife’s campaign now?”  Of course, the headline sounds really, really awful. It plays right into the idea that the Clinton Foundation is all about pay to play, just like Donald Trump has been saying all along. Unfortunately, it takes reading beyond the headlines, which is something most people don’t do, to find out the real story – and the real story is that there is no pay to play.  “It was natural for people who’ve been our political allies and personal friends to call and ask for things. And I trusted the State Department wouldn’t do anything they shouldn’t do,” Clinton told NPR in an interview that aired Monday morning.   Source: CNN  In other words, people can ask for favors, but that certainly doesn’t mean they’ll get them. Leaked emails have shown that some Clinton Foundation donors have gotten meetings with Clinton and that others were turned down. There is zero evidence of pay to play. In other words, people might have asked for favors, but there’s no evidence they got them.  Now, let’s talk about the foundation the media doesn’t like to mention, the Trump Foundation. Trump hasn’t given to his own foundation since 2008. He does collect money from others, though, and gives it in his name. He also takes from the charity and allegedly buys things like oil paintings and football helmets, all for himself, but out of charity money.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a September 13 CNN interview that his office is investigating Trump’s charitable foundation over concerns that it “engaged in some impropriety” as related to New York charity laws. The investigation launched amid reports from The Washington Post that Trump spent money from his charity on items meant to benefit himself, such as a $20,000 oil painting of himself and a $12,000 autographed football helmet, and also recycled others’ contributions “to make them appear to have come from him” although he “hasn’t given to the foundation since 2008.”  Source: Media Matters  Media Matters goes on to talk about the double standard and about how clearly the mainstream media is trying to promote Trump at the cost of Clinton’s candidacy:  Journalists have been criticized for the “double standard” in the ways they cover Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. Earlier this month, cable news programs devoted 13 times more coverage to Clinton’s pneumonia diagnosis as The Washington Post’s reporting about the Trump Foundation. This week, both the Trump Foundation and Trump Organization stories were given short shrift by the broadcast news programs in favor of coverage of Donald Trump’s Dr. Oz stunt.  All of this biased coverage is hurting Clinton and helping Trump. Trump has seen major gains over the last few weeks, largely because the media covers every minor Clinton “scandal” (if you call getting sick a “scandal”) while ignoring every scandal in Trump’s closet, and trust me, there are a lot.  "	9/19/16	link	mostly false		167	862	1021.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447449521962182		9/19/16	link	mostly true		896	2707	3051.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447486135291854	"Donald Trump appeared on Fox & Friends Monday morning and blamed the weekend attacks in New Jersey and New York City on refugees, a lack of profiling by law enforcement, and the First Amendment. Conservatives always go right past that First Amendment and only abide by the Second.  Trump took aim at refugees; however, bombing suspect Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, is a naturalized citizen.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel A Fox & Friends host asked Trump what he would do to stop “people who are radicalized here.” Trump responded to that by saying “freedom of the press” was to blame.  “They’re all talking about it so wonderfully because, you know, it’s called ‘freedom of the press,’ where you buy magazines and they tell you how to make these same bombs that I saw,” Trump said. “They tell you how to make bombs. We should arrest the people that do that because they’re participating in crime. Instead they say ‘oh no you can’t do anything, that’s freedom of expression.’”  “The websites are the same thing, those people should be arrested. They’re inciting violence, okay?” he continued. “They’re making violence possible. They should be arrested immediately…yet we don’t want to touch them because of freedom of speech.”  Watch at around the 21 minute mark:  [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3GTRabASaY8]  However, incitement is already an exception to the First Amendment.  Think Progress reports:  It’s a high bar to prove_—_for which Trump may have reason to be personally grateful. Under a laxer rule, it’s possible that Trump could be charged for incitement himself. In August, his statement that “Second Amendment people” could be able to do something about Hillary Clinton was met with widespread condemnation as a veiled assassination threat. On Friday, he called for Clinton’s bodyguards to “disarm immediately,” adding “let’s see what happens to her.”  Donald has attacked Freedom of the Press many times. Most recently, his campaign had a VICE reporter arrested. The GOP presidential nominee has gone as far as to defend Vladimir Putin for killing journalists.  Trump said of Putin after being confronted by Joe Scarborough over the Russian leader’s bloody history with journalists, “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader. Unlike what he have in this country.”  Freedom of the Press is part of our Constitution. It’s not up for debate, unless Melania Trump feels like suing bloggers for quoting from a source.  But if you ask Donald Trump Jr., he’ll tell you that political correctness is to blame for terrorist attacks.  Ironically, Junior’s pinned tweet reads, “Liberals love the first amendment until you say something they don’t agree with.”  He really should change that.  Featured image via Brian Blanco via Getty."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		1400	2728	7071.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447567931950341		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1935	4933	4441.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447573508616450		9/19/16	link	mostly true		261	931	3651.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447680388605762		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1147	3403	3861.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447689015271566		9/19/16	link	mostly true		248	894	661.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447692541937880		9/19/16	link	mostly false		156	661	1071.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447682791938855		9/20/16	link	mostly true		278	1866	681.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447875271919607	"A reporter for VICE News was arrested this weekend trying to get his press pass from the Trump campaign. Donald Trump attacked New York Times writer Maureen Dowd on Twitter for a negative story —  a routine practice for the Republican presidential nominee. He’s blacklisted reporters throughout the election and treated them so badly they’ve had to be escorted out of his rallies by Secret Service officers. He says he wants to “open up” libel laws, which would weaken journalists’ ability to report hard-hitting stories. He sued websites for writing that his wife and the potential first lady was rumored to be a Slovenian hooker. And Monday, Trump made a comment about the press that is arguably one of his worst yet.  In an interview with “Fox & Friends” on Fox News, Trump was speaking about the latest terrorist attacks in New York and New Jersey that occurred over the weekend. After blaming refugees, despite there being absolutely no evidence the refugee program is to blame, the hosts mentioned that people don’t need to be radicalized in Syria or Iraq because they can simply go online to be indoctrinated by terrorist groups.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Trump turned his sites on a constitutionally protected right, the freedom of press and expression:  “They’re all talking about it so wonderfully because, you know, it’s called ‘freedom of the press,’ where you buy magazines and they tell you how to make these same bombs that I saw.”  Trump then said he was totally in favor of freedom of the press, then turned right around and shat on freedom of the press saying they are “inciting violence.”  “They tell you how to make bombs. We should arrest the people that do that because they’re participating in crime. Instead, they say ‘oh no you can’t do anything, that’s freedom of expression.’ ”  And Trump also alluded to the fact that information on the internet should not be freely available (kind of like China):  “The websites are the same thing, those people should be arrested. They’re inciting violence, okay? They’re making violence possible. They should be arrested immediately…yet we don’t want to touch them because of freedom of speech.”  Incitement is not a constitutionally protected right, but it’s hard to prove that by making information available a website owner or writer is intentionally inciting a specific crime. But if the bar is lowered, Trump himself could be arrested for incitement, after telling his supporters to take out protesters at his rallies, or his comment that “Second Amendment people” could stop Clinton.  Trump’s problem with the media is troubling. Using these latest attacks to go after constitutionally protected freedoms reeks of Bush-era fear-mongering that led to the U.S. giving up privacy rights to the government. Trump has left a long trail of breadcrumbs showing us he’s on a path to destroy the First Amendment as we know it.  Freedom of expression and press is considered to be the fourth pillar of democracy in this country, without those freedoms the press is just a propaganda machine for the person in power. Only a small man fears information.  "	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		215	658	1441.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447947468579054		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1082	2380	4361.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447950298578771		9/20/16	link	mostly true		368	922	1921.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447952351911899		9/20/16	link	mostly true		202	576	851.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447953895245078		9/20/16	link	mostly true		363	1621	3161.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447962805244187	"If Donald Trump has his way, the constitutional right to due process will only belong to white racists.  In the wake of the bombing in New York City over the weekend, police were able to apprehend a suspect named Ahmad Khan Rahami after a shootout.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Rahami was hit and needed to be hospitalized to get his gunshot wound treated. And as an American citizen, he is also guaranteed the right to an attorney even if he cannot afford one.  Why? Because the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution say so.  But Republican nominee Donald Trump thinks the amendments should be scrapped in Rahami’s case. You know, because he’s a Muslim.  During a rally in Florida on Monday, Trump whined because Rahami is being treated in a hospital for his wound and further complained about him being represented by a competent defense attorney.  “Now we will give him amazing hospitalization. He will be taken care of by some of the best doctors in the world. He will be given a fully modern and updated hospital room. And he’ll probably even have room service, knowing the way our country is. And on top of all of that, he will be represented by an outstanding lawyer. His case will go through the various court systems for years and in the end, people will forget and his punishment will not be what it once would have been. What a sad situation.”  Trump, who advocates for torture techniques, also demanded a speedy trial resulting in “harsh punishment” and suggested using “whatever lawful methods are available to obtain information from the apprehended suspect to get information before it’s no longer timely.”  Here’s the video via YouTube.    The Fifth Amendment states:  No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury…nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.  Rahami is innocent until proven guilty. So not letting him get the treatment he needs could lead to him dying from an infection or loss of blood, thus depriving him of life without due process.  Furthermore, the Sixth Amendment clearly gives everyone the right to an attorney, even a bombing suspect.  In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the state and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for his defense.  The right to have an attorney is one of the most foundational values of the country, most exemplified by Founding Father John Adams, who defended the British soldiers who were arrested after the Boston Massacre in 1770.  In short, it doesn’t matter who the suspect is or what they did, they have the right to due process and an attorney in this country. But Donald Trump apparently wants to put a “white’s only” sign on the Constitution."	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		4135	4589	9371.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447987088575092	"The 2016 election is shaping up to be the weirdest (and nightmarish) election in decades. Up is down, night is day, and stupid is smart. Once Donald Trump became the nominee of a major party for the presidency, all existing and established norms went up in smoke. And the crazy is just getting started, so make sure you’ve got your passport handy.  Politico writes that Former President George H.W. Bush is completely snubbing Donald Trump and plans to vote for Hillary Clinton in November. This revelation came from Kathleen Hartington Kennedy Townsend, the former Maryland lieutenant governor and daughter of the late Robert F. Kennedy. Kennedy announced the news on Facebook yesterday when she posted a picture  shaking hands next to Bush Sr with this caption: “The President told me he’s voting for Hillary!!”  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel This is actually not very shocking when you consider how much the Bushes have shown their contempt for Trump, after ruining their chances of continuing their political dynasty with low-energy Jeb. Neither George Bush Sr. or George W. Bush showed up at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, and Jeb Bush has constantly let it be known that he has absolutely no intentions of voting for Trump. So perhaps this can be viewed as more of a repudiation of Trump than a glowing endorsement of Hillary.  Former First Lady Laura Bush dropped a major bombshell in April of this year when she essentially indicated that she was supporting Hillary. Here’s what Laura Bush about the presidential race:  “I want our next president – whoever he or she might be – to be somebody who is interested in women in Afghanistan and who will continue US policies… that we continue to do what we’re committed to do as a country,” she said, as she appeared on stage alongside her twin daughters Jenna and Barbara. “That’s who I want – or the kind of people that will do that and will pay attention to our history, and know what’s what’s happened before and know specifically how we can continue to do the good things that we do around the world.” Say what you will about George W. Bush–and there’s plenty–but his father was mostly a man of principle who put the country above petty politics. This is yet another reminder of how fractured the Republican Party has become.  Featured image via Getty "	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		1132	6369	4161.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447988215241646		9/20/16	link	mostly true		658	1929	3901.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1447990211908113	"Guess who George H.W. Bush is voting for? He lost to Bill Clinton in 1992, and his son is George W. Bush. Yet it seems that the elder Bush finds Trump so distasteful a candidate that he’s actually going to cast his vote for Hillary Clinton.  According to Politico, Bush Sr. had originally planned on keeping quiet about this election. Considering the fact that he’s a Republican, and therefore expected to weigh in on the side of the Republicans’ chosen candidate, this is actually pretty major. But it wasn’t Bush himself who revealed his vote. It was Kathleen Kennedy Townsend—daughter of the late Robert Kennedy—who let this particular interesting tidbit slip:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “On Monday, Townsend posted a picture on her Facebook page shaking hands next to the former president and this caption: ‘The President told me he’s voting for Hillary!!'”  She stood by that later on when talking to Politico. According to her, George H.W. Bush would rather vote for his former rival and successor’s wife than the god-awful train wreck that is Donald Trump.  A spokesman for the Bush family refused to actually confirm this – he said that George H.W.’s vote is a private decision and will remain so. He himself isn’t commenting, but it seems that those who are in his inner circle aren’t being so tight-lipped, if Kennedy is to be believed.  Bush Sr. did make it clear back in May that he had absolutely zero intention of endorsing Trump. That’s a bold, but wise, move for any Republican, since Republicans are supposed to be on the side of freedom and Trump is on the side of dictatorship and authoritarianism.  His love of Russian president Vladimir Putin would suggest that he’s also on the side of autocracy. None of these three things meshes with the democracy Republicans say we’ve built in even the smallest way.  Earlier in the summer, an administration official for George W. Bush announced that she would vote for Hillary, adding her name to an ever-growing list of Republicans and conservatives who can’t find it within themselves to support Trump. Jeb Bush has said he can neither vote for Hillary nor Trump.  A former Republican president refusing to stand for the current Republican nominee is a stinging blow indeed.  Featured image by Scott Halleran/Getty Images"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		379	3120	2531.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448025148571286	"Let’s go eat all of the Skittles and send the empty packages to Donald Trump’s unfortunately named son.  Because the candy metaphor he posted to Twitter today in order to demonize Syrian immigrants is worthy of great mockery.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Trump Jr. posted a image of a bowl of Skittles and asked if anyone would eat them if he said three were poisoned. Somehow, that’s what the Syrian immigrant “problem” is like.  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 4:41 PM - 19 Sep 2016   17,170 17,170 Retweets   28,127 28,127 likes  Syrians are fleeing their homeland right now because it is a war torn hell that continues to get bloodier. Naturally, they would love nothing more than to immigrate to the United States for peace and opportunities. But the Trump family in staunchly ant-immigrant.  Well, Twitter users were not amused and promptly ripped Tiny Hands Jr. a new one.  . @DonaldJTrumpJr is this funny to you you sick piece of shit? pic.twitter.com/2qZbyrTENl  — Rawan (@rawan) September 20, 2016  how about this? wanna laugh about this? wanna compare this to skittles? @DonaldJTrumpJr pic.twitter.com/aMTIaVHjey  — Rawan (@rawan) September 20, 2016  19 Sep  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN  Follow  Touré _ @Toure That last RT from @DonaldJTrumpJr shows you the moronic anti-immigrant fear mongering the Trumps love. Immigrants are not coming to kill us. 4:57 PM - 19 Sep 2016   583 583 Retweets   2,800 2,800 likes 19 Sep  Touré _ @Toure That last RT from @DonaldJTrumpJr shows you the moronic anti-immigrant fear mongering the Trumps love. Immigrants are not coming to kill us.  Follow  Jack Schofield _ @jackschofield .@Toure @DonaldJTrumpJr The Trumps are German immigrants (who lied about being Swedish). @realDonaldTrump married an illegal migrant worker. 5:49 PM - 19 Sep 2016   104 104 Retweets   498 498 likes 19 Sep  Gabe Ortíz _ @TUSK81 .@DonaldJTrumpJr pic.twitter.com/7IIpy8uujI  Follow  Gabe Ortíz _ @TUSK81 So basically @DonaldJTrumpJr shared a white supremacist meme for the second time this month. https://twitter.com/texasinafrica/status/778053618138177539 … 7:53 PM - 19 Sep 2016   259 259 Retweets   352 352 likes .@DonaldJTrumpJr Can you people not afford a goddamn copy editor? pic.twitter.com/8yZ5amA3WQ  — Courtney Enlow (@courtenlow) September 20, 2016  19 Sep  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN  Follow  Keith Olbermann _ @KeithOlbermann .@DonaldJTrumpJr Seek professional help for your paranoia. And somebody to make GOOD analogies for you. #SeriouslySonnySkittles ? 6:21 PM - 19 Sep 2016   307 307 Retweets   921 921 likes 19 Sep  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN  Follow  America Resurgent @ProgressOutlook The bowl of skittles aren't vetted. Refugees are vetted for 18 months. @DonaldJTrumpJr 4:44 PM - 19 Sep 2016   835 835 Retweets   5,860 5,860 likes 19 Sep  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN  Follow  Malcolm Nance _ @MalcolmNance This image says it all. In 1939 900 Jews on ship fm Nazi Germany to USA were sent back. 25% died in Holocaust. Not skittles @DonaldJTrumpJr pic.twitter.com/vbvQMFYquF 6:14 PM - 19 Sep 2016 View image on Twitter   2,743 2,743 Retweets   3,055 3,055 likes And my personal favorite:  19 Sep  Donald Trump Jr. _ @DonaldJTrumpJr This image says it all. Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first. #trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN  Follow  Gabe Ortíz _ @TUSK81 .@DonaldJTrumpJr pic.twitter.com/7IIpy8uujI 7:44 PM - 19 Sep 2016 View image on Twitter   1,773 1,773 Retweets   2,829 2,829 likes A Skittles rep even stepped in to inform Trump Jr. that “skittles are candy” and “refugees are people.”  2016-09-20_3-50-43  Besides…refugees might share some Skittles with you.   Follow  Skittles _ @Skittles Every stranger is just a friend you haven’t met who might share their Skittles with you. 9:00 AM - 20 Aug 2011   1,717 1,717 Retweets   2,595 2,595 likes Trump Jr. had to learn about human decency from a candy company. Now THAT says it all.  Featured Image: Getty Images/Jeff J. Mitchell"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		3191	8908	5851.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448154985224969	"We’ve all seen campaign promises go horribly wrong. One of the most famous is probably “read my lips…no new taxes,” a moment in time that won an election and lost the next after George HW Bush made the promise but signed the largest tax increase in the history of tax increases. What Donald Trump just promised as a reaction to the attacks over the weekend in Chelsea and Minnesota may have that beat:  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Official Team Trump _ @TeamTrump .@JasonMillerinDC: Statement on Last Weekend’s Terror Attacks https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/statement-on-last-weekends-terror-attacks … 11:50 AM - 19 Sep 2016   193 193 Retweets   294 294 likes Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Take a look at that and consider what it says. The personal attacks on President Obama and Secretary Clinton aside, Trump just promised to destroy the existential threat of terrorism in America. He didn’t promise to increase funding to counter-terrorism units or deliver a plan to fight internet terrorism recruitment, he promised to destroy all terrorists and end terrorism on our soil.  Let’s imagine for a moment that Trump actually tried to implement this plan of his. “Destroy” doesn’t leave much to the imagination. While the mouth-breathers who support him are probably giving this statement a hearty “yeeeeehaw,” the reality is that he’s talking about something far more terrifying than the low rate of terrorism we actually witness in America. He’s talking about profiling Muslims. He’s talking about Donald Trump’s version of the Patriot Act, where nobody with brown skin is safe.The man being hunted by the FBI, for example, isn’t just a Muslim, he’s an   The man being hunted by the FBI, for example, isn’t just a Muslim, he’s an American citizen with the right to due process. Just because he’s a suspect in a bombing doesn’t mean he’s guilty of setting off bombs. With this blanket Trump statement, however, this man would be in a deck of cards marked “kill” and not on the most wanted list. There’s nothing that would lead one to believe that citizenship, constitutional rights or due process would come into play.  What that means is that under Trump’s dream regime, we could expect Muslim heavy neighborhoods like Dearborn and Queens to become heavily patrolled and segregated and their residents routinely grabbed off the streets never to return. Without a way to differentiate Christian Arabs from Muslims, would they need to wear some kind of identifying mark to make them easier to spot? If you think I’m being overly critical and you doubt that fascism is where an American presidential candidate is leaning, read that statement one more time. It isn’t about the narrative. It isn’t about prevention or education.  It’s about destroying the existential threat of terrorism at all costs. It may sound good to a bunch of knuckle-draggers who love to hate based on skin color and religion, but to those of us who have studied history and understand exactly what that terminology means, Donald Trump just became even more frightening.  The only solace we have is that what he’s promising is nothing but another “read my lips.” Terrorism isn’t something you can simply “destroy” just because you said so. The thought of turning our streets into a Denzel Washington movie might get you a few more votes from the daft but it isn’t going to provide you with the laws you need to actually implement your fascism. Like the rest of Donald Trump’s campaign, in the end this is nothing more than a bloviating blowhard peddling fear to weak-minded, gullible morons."	9/20/16	link	mostly false		285	934	1531.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448516865188781		9/20/16	link	mostly true		691	1597	3901.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448517158522085		9/20/16	link	mostly true		76	535	1351.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448608135179654		9/20/16	link	mostly true		237	1943	431.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448695945170873		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1638	6946	7271.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448729105167557		9/20/16	link	mostly true		80	808	1311.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448730725167395		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1048	2842	4261.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448881151819019	"Scammer-turned reality show star-turned-Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump chatted with Fox News’s Bill O’Reilly last night and commenced to bash our military, as one does when running for the White House while trying to garner the patriotic™ conservative vote.  While insulting President Barack Obama, Donald also took shots at the military, calling troops the “gang that couldn’t shoot straight.”  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel In just 15 seconds, Donald said “win” or “winning” nine times in less than 15 seconds while offering no details  on how he would obtain these ‘wins.’  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Sopan Deb _ @SopanDeb Trump says ""win"" or ""winning"" nine times in less than 15 seconds to @oreillyfactor: 6:01 PM - 19 Sep 2016   137 137 Retweets   196 196 likes  “Well, I know how to win. I know how to win. I have been winning. I do win. Even in sports. I win,” Donald told O’Reilly. “And we don’t win. Our country doesn’t win. We don’t win at trade. We don’t win. We can’t beat ISIS. Can you imagine General Douglas MacArthur or General Patton? Can imagine they are spinning in their grave right now when they see the way we fight,” he continued. “We announce that we are sending certain people over here at a certain time. Everything is political. It’s very, very sad. Then we bomb the Syrian troops. You saw that over the weekend. We bombed, I guess we killed more than 80 troops.”  Watch:    At that point, Donald seemed concerned that Russia would be upset with the U.S. even though they were consulted beforehand.  And now Russia is absolutely furious at us. But we bomb the wrong people. I mean, we are like the gang that couldn’t shoot straight. Our country, with this leader, is the gang that couldn’t shoot straight. That’s what it is. The United Stats made a tactical error and accidentally bombed a detachment of Syrian government forces Saturday after mistakenly believing them to be ISIS forces.  “The United States has relayed our regret through the Russian Federation for the unintentional loss of life of Syrian forces,” an Obama administration official announced at the time, according to Mediaite. However, the Russians, who appear to really want a Trump administration, criticized the bombings, even though again, they raised no objections when they were consulted before the incident took place.  Russian diplomats then floated a Trump conspiracy theory, because of course:  After the botched strike, Russian diplomats floated a Trump conspiracy theory that the Obama administration is actively helping ISIS. In fact, wherever the Islamic State abuts his enemies, Assad has actively assisted them with his own air power, while Putin has pursued a policy of allowing extremists to leave Russia and join ISIS.  Donald offered no alternatives as to how he would prevent a botched bombing. He just says the word ‘win’ repeatedly and his supporters eat it up. So does Vladimir Putin, apparently. This man wants to get his little hands on the nuclear codes. Let that sink in for a moment.  Shockingly, Sean Hannity, the Patriot, has been strangely quiet since Donald bashed our military. The rest of the media is probably waiting for Hillary to cough."	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		667	1095	1131.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448886951818439		9/21/16	link	mostly true		91	410	541.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448909408482860		9/21/16	link	mostly true			3012	1301.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1448968271810307	"Trump currently has his hands full with the ongoing lawsuit against his company “Trump University”.  Now, a federal judge, the same one Trump insulted during a recent rally, has ordered that Trump University documents be released.  Trump’s attorneys tried to avoid this outcome by claiming that the documents they were requesting included important trade secrets.  But that didn’t stop Judge Gonzalo Curiel.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel The result of this decision could certainly be damaging for the Trump campaign.  While Trump can brush many things off his back for some unknown reason, the idea of a fraud university that tricked college-aged students and put them into debt is rather disturbing.  Furthermore, Judge Curiel stated that part of the reason he wanted the documents released is the public interest in Trump’s case.  It’s clear that Trump has felt threatened by this whole ordeal.  For 12 whole minutes of a 58 minute speech, Trump insulted this judge and claimed he wasn’t playing fair.  Citing the fact that this judge was appointed by President Obama, and that he has made rulings against Trump, Trump claims he is biased.  He also indirectly insinuated that the judge is biased because he is “Mexican” (which actually isn’t true at all, even if that mattered – he’s from the US).  Trump University was started in 2004 as a firm to offer courses and workshops in entrepreneurship.  The University used the Trump brand and marketed it as an opportunity to be a apprentice of Trump himself.  Trump became a 93% owner of the enterprise and has benefitted from its profits.  The problem is that many students believe they have not benefitted from the instruction.  The university is not accredited, you can’t earn a degree, and yet thousands of students took out tens of thousands of dollars worth of loans to attend.  Several lawsuits were placed against the “university” by its students.  The state of New York even placed their complaints against Trump University.  The state filed a $40 million lawsuit saying the school gave “false promises”.  The New York State Board of Education claimed it was “misleading and even illegal” to call the firm a university.  As a result, the name changed to the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative in 2010.  Around 80,000 people have been documented as attending free introductory seminars, while 9000 paid $1,500 for three-day seminars.  All of that doesn’t sound too bad, but take into account that 800 people paid around $35,000 for larger packages such as mentorship programs.  In the lawsuit by the state of New York, under New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, it was alleged that Trump defrauded over 5,000 individuals.  In a script only Trump could use, he claimed in marketing videos for the school that:  “We are going to have professors and adjust professors that are absolutely terrific…and these are all people who are going to be handpicked by me.”  Michael Sexton, one of the top executives of the institution, said himself that “none of the professors at the live events” were actually picked by Trump.  The story and lawsuit of Trump University may just be one of the most symbolic things about the Trump candidacy and the man himself.  He uses his name recognition and the perception of wealth and success to further his interests.  It’s essentially “I’m rich because I’m rich, now give me more money/power because I’m rich”.  By tagging his name along with the name of an unaccredited educational institution, thousands of people were duped into believing it would be worth their money.  If Trump University had been named the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative all along, perhaps the allegations would seem more hollow.  After all, people pay for overpriced seminars and workshops all the time.  However, naming the institution “Trump University” gives it the illusion that it is the kind of place a student could come to get a degree in lieu of another college.  That is just simply not the case.  In the end, this lawsuit could end in Trump losing tens of millions of dollars, along with tens of millions of votes.  That’s a huge chunk of his fortune given that, depending on who listen to, some analysts estimate he is only worth between 20-70 million in terms of cash, assets and bonds.  He himself claims he is worth several billion, but the truth is probably somewhere in-between.  "	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false			1952	1621.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449001875140280		9/21/16	link	mostly true		2957	4918	3571.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449004081806726		9/21/16	link	mostly true		9243	8634	8811.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449388441768290		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1005	1989	7111.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449502221756912	"Trump Campaign Gives PATHETIC Reason Why George H.W. Bush Is Voting For Hillary (VIDEO) By Vera on September 21, 2016 10:46 am · Months ago, former First Lady Laura Bush shocked Americans when she said she’d rather vote for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton than a Republican this election. For the most part, former presidential candidate Jeb Bush and former presidents George W. Bush and George H.W. Bush have opted to stay out of this election – until now.  Word of George H.W. Bush’s decision to snub the GOP by not voting for its disastrous Republican nominee just recently broke, and it’s a super provocative move because not only is Bush refusing to support his party, but he is voting for the Democratic Party instead. It’s a controversial decision, but obviously Bush recognizes that it’s the smartest choice for the future of this country.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel The Trump campaign, as you can imagine, isn’t taking this lightly. In an interview with CNN’s Erin Burnett, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway reacted to the elder Bush’s voting decision and couldn’t have demonstrated any better how immature and bitter the campaign was about it.  Conway said that although she ‘respects’ Bush’s choice, it’s ironic that he’s voting for “the wife of the man who knocked him out of the race” in 1992. Conway also chalked up Bush’s decision to vote for Clinton to his emotions and “hurt feelings” over his son’s loss to Trump in the primaries. She said:  “This was a bruising primary, and Jeb Bush really failed all expectations… I know there are a lot of hurt feelings there.”  You can watch the interview below:  “Jeb Bush really failed…there are a lot of hurt feelings” @KellyannePolls on Bush 41 voting #Clinton https://t.co/iyhiLRgrPL    Follow  OutFrontCNN _ @OutFrontCNN ""Jeb Bush really failed...there are a lot of hurt feelings"" @KellyannePolls on Bush 41 voting #Clinton 4:47 PM - 20 Sep 2016   25 25 Retweets   44 44 likes This response from the Trump campaign is exactly what we’d expect it to be. The Bush family is making a responsible, informed decision during this election, and that is way too much for Trump and his minions to wrap their feeble minds around. This election is no joke – it’s about far more than Republican and Democrat parties. It’s about saving the country from a candidate that will destroy it – and the Bush’s are smart enough to recognize that."	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		128	795	1261.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449551611751973		9/21/16	link	mostly true		218	748	1541.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449600481747086		9/21/16	link	mostly true		671	2264	10301.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449601135080354		9/21/16	link	mostly true		390	1449	2731.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449628885077579	"WATCH: Jimmy Kimmel Demonstrates That Trump Could Support Child Rape And Not Lose Any Votes By Stephen D Foster Jr on September 21, 2016 1:08 pm · It’s official. Trump’s supporters will vote for Donald Trump no matter what he does or what lies he tells, even if his tax returns reveal the truth.  During his show on Tuesday night, Jimmy Kimmel ran yet another “Lie Witness News” segment featuring Trump supporters being asked questions based on the false story of him finally releasing his tax returns.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel The Kimmel reporter on the street asked Trump fans what they think now that the tax returns reveal that Trump is close with Putin, leases his wife Melania, writes off gold-plated toilets as a business expense, and supports child molester Jared Fogle.  As it turns out, every single Trump supporter said they are still voting for the Republican nominee no matter what, even if it is true that Trump contributed to the legal defense fund of a convicted child molester. In fact, his supporters made excuses for Trump in order to justify his actions.  So when Donald Trump said that he could go out and shoot someone dead in broad daylight in the middle of Fifth Avenue and not lose any votes, he was right.  Because Trump’s supporters were not fazed by any of the claims presented to them. They were even okay with him lying on his returns by listing his occupation as a farmer.  Seriously.  Here’s the video via YouTube.    Trump’s supporters are truly deplorable people who just want to watch the world burn.  It doesn’t matter what he says or what he does or how much he embarrasses America, Donald Trump’s supporter will vote for him no matter what.  So the question is will the rest of us sit home on Election Day and let the lunatics win? Or will we get our asses off the couch and make sure Donald Trump never sets a single toe inside the White House?  Because if his supporters don’t mind him doing all of these despicable things, that means Trump could basically do whatever he wants in office without political consequences and that would be disastrous for the nation.  "	9/21/16	link	no factual content		493	1404	1671.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449772355063232		9/21/16	link	mostly true		255	1329	791.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449777868396014		9/21/16	link	mostly true		148	925	321.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449942021712932	"WATCH: Trump Just Accidentally Admitted He Still Believes Obama Was Born In Kenya By John Prager on September 21, 2016 8:14 pm · In an interview with a Toledo, Ohio news station, Donald Trump accidentally admitted that his “big” 20-second announcement that Barack Obama was born in the United States, “period,” was just a ruse. Speaking to ABC6/FOX28, Trump seems to have again picked up the birther ball in a “wink and nod” fashion.  “This announcement earlier this week with you saying that you believe President Obama was in fact born in the United States, after all the years where you’ve expressed some doubt, what changed?” interviewer Ben Garbarek asked, prompting Trump to explain that he caved because he didn’t want to talk about it anymore — no other reason:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “Well I just wanted to get on with, I wanted to get on with the campaign. A lot of people were asking me questions. We want to talk about jobs. We want to talk about the military. We want to talk about ISIS and get rid of ISIS. We want to talk about bringing jobs back to this area because you’ve been decimated so we just wanted to get back on the subject of jobs, military, taking care of our vets, etc.”  Yes, being able to “get on” with his campaign without being bothered by inconvenient questions about the five years he spent attempting to delegitimize the President by demanding his birth certificate, college transcripts and applications, and other documents he was sure would prove that Barry Soetoro (as the President is known in birther circles) is a Kenyan-born conman who managed to install himself as President through what we can only assume is…magic.  Sadly, this accidental admission that his views on the President’s birthplace and eligibility for office had not changed one iota is perhaps the most honest thing Trump has said lately, with much of his attention being focused on defending the Trump Foundation’s misuse of charitable funds to pay The Donald’s personal legal fees, attacking African-American communities, and practically publicly masturbating over the recent attacks in New York and New Jersey.  Watch the interview below:"	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		258	1104	1911.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449996281707506		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1742	3394	4311.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450020218371779		9/21/16	link	mostly true		12	71	11.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449944418379359	" Fast Food CEO Threatens To Fire Everyone If A Democrat Wins The Presidency 0 sharesShare on FacebookShare on Twitter For decades, employers have been holding America hostages with threats of taking their business elsewhere if we don’t vote the way they want. Of course, what generally happens when we vote the way they want is that we get screwed anyway. Jobs get outsourced, wages remain stagnant and regulations stop being enforced.  It hasn’t been since, well, the last presidential election, though, that we’ve seen a CEO be quite as blatant about what his plans are if his side (Republican) loses. Four years ago, it was “Papa” John Schnatter, who threatened to cut his employees’ hours and raise the price of pizzas if Obamacare went through. It did and he didn’t.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel This year, another fast food mogul is making news for treating to hurt the economy if he doesn’t get his way. Andy Puzder is the CEO of Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s. Here’s one of his commercials, which may not be safe for work:    Judging by the commercials, like Donald Trump, Puzder likely cares little about political correctness. But that’s not the reason he wants a Republican in office. He just doesn’t want to pay people more, or at all. In an Op-Ed in the Wall Street Journal, Puzder says that if a Democrat wins, either Democrat, he will fully automate his stores. Speaking about an automated fast food system named Eatsa, Puzder wrote:  “I want to try it,” CEO Andy Puzder told Business Insider of his automated restaurant plans. “We could have a restaurant that’s focused on all-natural products and is much like an Eatsa, where you order on a kiosk, you pay with a credit or debit card, your order pops up, and you never see a person.”  “With government driving up the cost of labor, it’s driving down the number of jobs,” he says. “You’re going to see automation not just in airports and grocery stores, but in restaurants.”  “This is the problem with Bernie Sanders, and Hillary Clinton, and progressives who push very hard to raise the minimum wage,” says Puzder. “Does it really help if Sally makes $3 more an hour if Suzie has no job?”  Source: Yahoo Finance  This threat is probably less about you and me than about his employees. Across the country, Puzder has about 20,000 employees. He’s hoping he can convince his employees and the millions of other minimum wage and fast food employees across the nation to vote against their own interests.  Puzder also has his own blog, where he writes a lot about politics and the joys of capitalism. One has to wonder if his 20,000 employees are quite as joyful about capitalism as he is.  Puzder is doing just fine. In 2012, it was reported that he made nearly $4.5 million. His profits have been up in recent years, but his employees don’t see any of that. In fact, Puzder is famous for making big stink every time an opportunity to rip off his employees is denied.  You can guarantee, though, that even if a Republican wins the White House and the minimum wage stays the same, Puzder will still be automating. That’s just the way he is: profits over people.  "	9/22/16	link	mostly false			1397	7081.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1449993025041165		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1005	1856	2901.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450069728366828		9/22/16	link	mostly true		331	1011	2081.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450081075032360		9/22/16	link	mostly true		156	1706	281.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450101585030309	"BACKFIRE: REPUBLICANS CREATE SHOW TRIAL FOR IRS HEAD, SO DEMS USE IT TO FIND OUT ABOUT TRUMP’S TAXES  10348 SHARES The Republican witch hunt to make the IRS commissioner pay for…something… backfired in spectacular fashion after Democrats, insulted at having been dragged into this show trial, took the opportunity to instead flip the script.  During IRS Commissioner John Koskinen’s hearing, Democrats began ignoring the “impeachment” nonsense and focused entirely on getting to the bottom of Donald Trump’s numerous tax scandals, including specific questions about his tax returns and charity fraud.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Of particular interest was Trump’s stated excuse for not releasing his tax returns because he is under audit. Tax experts have long noted that this argument is complete nonsense. An audit does not preclude the ability to show the American people your finances before an election. The head of the IRS – who presumably knows a thing or two about this – agreed.  “Is there anything that would prohibit someone from releasing tax returns, if they want to, because they’re under audit?” Rep. Jerry Nadler, a Democrat from New York asked.  “No,” Koskinen responded simply.  Another Democratic representative asked it another way.  “Would releasing the person’s tax return during the audit in any way impact that pending audit of the return?” Rep. Ted Deutch asked.  “The release itself wouldn’t. The concern sometimes by taxpayers is that when the information is public there may be more information that will be discovered or provided,” Koskinen said.  In other words, Trump was worried that releasing his tax returns could make him look bad, or possibly allow nosy reporters to find even more criminality that the IRS missed the first time. This answer actually confirms what Trump’s son suggested to reporters in an unusual break from his dad. It wasn’t the audit that scares Trump, it’s that reporters seeing the tax returns would allow them to discover what’s in them and that would destroy his father’s chances of becoming president.  It may be for this reason that Trump has hinted he will only release his tax returns after the election. It won’t matter then.  The beatings continued in earnest while Republicans were forced to sit there with “What have we done?” expressions painted on their faces.  Democrats then went on to highlight some of the items that could prove problematic for Trump to disclose, such as his actual income, what he pays the government in taxes, clues to his actual net worth and records of his charitable giving.  Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) wondered aloud if discovering payments by Russia might suggest a monetary _ or even treasonous _ motive for going soft on a U.S. rival.  Several also raised the recent reports of Trump using his tax-free foundation to to buy paintings and sports memorabilia, to fund political campaigns and to pay business expenses.  “Is it appropriate for a foundation to give political donations?” asked Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas).  The answer was no. Rep. Luis Gutierrez smiled in the face of Republican discomfort at the questions while munching on a bag of Skittles (a not-so-subtle nod to Trump Jr.’s recent comparison of Syrian refugees to poisoned candy). He later clarified that, unlike some people, he wouldn’t stop eating Skittles if he got a bad one.  It was not a good day to be a Republican lawmaker.  The IRS commissioner is facing a Republican-orchestrated impeachment due to what they say was a cover up to hide IRS targeting of conservative groups. The minor detail that no evidence of the IRS head actually targeting conservative groups actually exists didn’t seem to bother them.  The impeachment hearing, widely agreed to be a dog-and-pony show, came after Republican leaders managed to stop an embarrassing impeachment vote on the House floor which would have humiliated the GOP with yet another stark example for the American voters of how frivolous and dysfunctional the party has become. They settled for grandstanding.  So with the knowledge that Republicans were wasting everyone’s time, Democrats decided to use those wasted hours to highlight just how corrupt Donald Trump is. Waste not, want not.  Watch the IRS hearing, starting with Rep. Nadler’s investigation into Trump’s lies, here:"	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		709	2951	821.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450101775030290	"TRUMP SUPPORTERS OFFER OUTRAGEOUS CONSPIRACY THEORIES TO DAILY SHOW REPORTER (VIDEO)  15705 SHARES If there is one thing you can say about Trump supporters, it is that they are sure about what they don’t know. And what they don’t know can fill volumes, as evidenced by the latest conversation with some of them, shared on the September 20 episode of Comedy Central’s The Daily Show.  You can’t blame these people for some of the conspiracy theories they believe — many of those theories started in right-wing media, like Fox News. But when asked, many Trump voters were willing to offer up their own ideas about conspiracies that go far and beyond what even Sean Hannity would probably touch.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Reporter Jordan Klepper visited Trump rallies to talk to the attendees and what they told him will make you laugh at first –then it just might make you cry. Trump famously said that he loves the “poorly educated” and Klepper found them in abundance as they waited to hear from their god-emperor.  The first couple of people Klepper talks to were interested in rumors about Hillary’s health. One man tells him that he thinks she has AIDS, which she got from Bill. And where did Bill get it? “From messing with that Magic Johnson,” the man replies. We assume he meant the former NBA star and not the ex-president’s, er, “johnson.”  It doesn’t take Klepper long to find people who appear to be totally divorced from reality. Like the man who believes Clinton has a body double, and when shown two identical photos of the candidate by Klepper, he quickly and confidently picks out the one he thinks is the “double.”  Then there’s the guy who says President Obama reveals he is a Muslim by the way he wears his jewelry. He is referring to a long debunked story that claimed that the president stopped wearing his watch and wedding ring in observance of Ramadan. But there’s no restriction prohibiting Muslims from wearing jewelry during the holy month, except in this man’s mind. So the president appearing sans watch and wedding ring proves absolutely nothing.  But the winner is the guy who claimed that Hillary has AIDS, for his demand to know why President Obama wasn’t in the Oval Office when the World Trade Center was attacked on September 11, 2001.  These people will be voting on November 8. Will you be?  Here’s the video, via Comedy Central:"	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1475	4451	5111.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450286118345189	"On Wednesday, talk show legend Montel Williams posed a very simple question for conservatives: when are you going to take responsibility for their role in helping to create the violent situation in Charlotte, North Carolina? Just hours after Donald Trump proposed nationwide “Stop and Frisk” — a policy that was declared unconstitutional in New York.Responding to a question about “black-on-black crime,” Trump said he would “do stop-and-frisk” to solve the problem. “We did it in New York,” he said. “It worked incredibly well and you have to be proactive.”Subscribe to our Youtube ChannelStop-and-frisk did not, in fact, “work incredibly well.” In 2011, for example, black and Latino residents made up about 90 percent of people stopped, and 88 percent of those were innocent. Even in predominantly white neighborhoods, blacks and Latinos were stopped more than whites.“Donald Trump is having trouble with the facts,” New York City Council Speaker Melissa Mark Viverito said in a statement regarding Trump’s remarks. “Stop and frisk as it was applied in New York City was unconstitutional, it didn’t reduce crime and it severely corroded the relationship between the police and the communities they serve.”Yes, “stop-and-frisk” is a racist practice, but his suggestion that it should be implemented nationwide really resonates with some of Trump’s die-hard supporters — namely white supremacists.“When are conservatives going to own their damn part in this? That asshole Trump just proposed national stop and frisk?” Williams, who has also been critical of protesters who have chosen to become violent, asked on Twitter. “WTF?”One of Trump’s “deplorables” calling himself “Big Daddy” climbed out of his basket and once again proved Hillary Clinton’s assessment of The Donald’s meth-fueled legion of ignoramuses correct. “He will control n*ggers unlike you cucks,” Big Daddy informed Williams.Naturally, more of Trump’s “deplorables” came out to play: 2016-09-21_23-41-39But Trump’s acolyte apparently did not know to whom he was speaking. “And now we know why these white supremacist bumpkins with no teeth married to their cousins love Trump,” Williams shot back:livryuy9-1“Big Daddy” has since slithered back into the basket and closed it, changing his name and protecting his tweets presumably because he realized that when you say racist things on the internet, people notice.0xdwz_2iIt’s interesting how “brave” Trump’s paper tigers are until someone puts them in their place."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		167	832	451.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450487488325052	"Trump Loses Support Of Police Union After Saying Tulsa Shooting Cop ‘Choked’ (VIDEO) By Vera on September 22, 2016 8:52 am · While giving a speech at a church rally in Cleveland, Donald Trump confused everyone by actually siding with a victim of police brutality instead of law enforcement – and it’s gotten him in trouble with America’s largest police union.  In speaking to the rally goers in Cleveland, Trump strayed from his normal, pro-cop rhetoric to say a few unflattering words about Betty Shelby, the Tulsa police officer who shot an unarmed black man. Clearly worried about how horrendously his attempts to reach black voters have failed, Trump gave an unusually thoughtful response to a group of African American pastors, in which he suggested that Shelby had ‘choked’:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “Now, did she get scared? Was she choking? What happened? But maybe people like that, people that choke, people that do that, maybe they can’t be doing what they’re doing, okay? They can’t be doing what they’re doing.  I watched the shooting in particular in Tulsa. And that man was hands up. That man went to the car, hands up, put his hand on the car. I mean, to me, it looked like he did everything you’re supposed to do, and he looked like a really good man.”  Trump made these comments just five days after the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), which has 330,000 members, endorsed him. But after hearing Trump criticize the Tulsa police officer, FOP executive director Jim Pasco is livid and thinks Trump’s comments were inappropriate. Pasco said that Trump “must be mindful of the due process rights and presumption of innocence accorded to all, including police officers.”  Now, no one should be proud or relieved that Trump finally decided to acknowledge police brutality victims – he’s been known to pander to whatever audience he is in front of at any given moment, and is notorious for flip-flopping almost instantly. This speech was easy for Trump to say in front of black pastors – I doubt he would have dared to say this in front of a predominately white audience. Trump also knows he is struggling tremendously with the minority vote, which may very well determine this election. Trump will say whatever he needs to win – but this time, he lost a major support group.  Here’s the clip that got Trump in trouble with the police union:"	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1281	3973	5471.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450622854978182		9/22/16	link	mostly true		270	1465	1031.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450628841644250	"51 Companies Are Pledging Over $650 Million In Refugee Support, White House Announces By Ryan Denson on September 22, 2016 11:11 am · While Donald Trump Jr., Executive Vice President of the Trump Organization, compares refugees to poisoned skittles, the CEOs, Presidents and other executives of 51 companies are coming together to pledge hundreds of millions of dollars to aid refugees all across the world, the White House has announced.  Coming together to show solidarity and compassion while world leaders meet for the U.N. General Assembly session, the companies – which include Matercard, Facebook, Twitter, Johnson & Johnson, and yogurt maker Chobani – will use the money to promote, sustain and continue education, employment and financial services all across the world, and alleviate suffering to over 6 million refugees:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Today, 51 U.S. companies — which represent more than 2.5 million employees, more than $775 billion in annual revenue, and more than $3.2 trillion in market capitalization — have stepped up and are standing with the Administration to demonstrate that private sector innovation and resources can make a difference and catalyze real solutions. Together, they have committed to investing, donating, and raising more than $650 million.  The hefty pledge is just part of the White House’s goal of $3 billion in humanitarian aid, and the announcement was made just as President Obama hosted a refugee summit with the leaders of Jordan, Mexico, Sweden, Germany, Canada and Ethiopia, countries that have taken in thousands of refugees from Syria and other war-torn states.  While meeting with the company CEOs and George Clooney, President Obama thanked them for their “extraordinary gesture of compassion,” saying:  “I want to emphasize that from their perspective this isn’t charity. This is part of their overall mission. It makes good business sense.”  Unlike Trump’s businesses – in which hotel stays have plummeted – people like to be compassionate, see compassion, and act on it.  U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told world leaders and the company leaders, “Your compassion will really help these helpless people. If not us, who can do it?”  Certainly not Donald J. Trump, nor his spawn of selfish fear-mongers.  The companies took to social media to express their support for President Obama’s call to action:   Follow  Airbnb _ @Airbnb We believe in a world where you can #BelongAnywhere. Today there are millions of displaced refugees in need of belonging somewhere. 12:27 PM - 19 Sep 2016   353 353 Retweets   1,004 1,004 likes  Follow  Citi _ @Citi #Citi is proud to support President Obama's Call for Action to help solve the global #refugee crisis. http://on.citi.us/2cG5voa  7:02 AM - 20 Sep 2016 Photo published for Private Sector Participants to the Call to Action Private Sector Participants to the Call to Action In response to the President’s Call to Action, the following companies have put forward commitments to address the global refugee crisis.  obamawhitehouse.archives.gov   13 13 Retweets   23 23 likes View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Mastercard News _ @MastercardNews Mastercard & @mercycorps partner to provide #refugee aid at the most critical times http://news.mstr.cd/28IUqhy  #UNGA 11:50 AM - 15 Sep 2016   10 10 Retweets   14 14 likes  Follow  Alight Fund @alightfund We're proud our little start up is standing w/ @facebook @LinkedIn @Citi & other businesses in support of #refugees http://bit.ly/2cW7Uc4  6:15 AM - 20 Sep 2016 Photo published for Over 50 U.S. Businesses Step Up For Refugees Over 50 U.S. Businesses Step Up For Refugees For every minute that passed last year, an average of 24 people were forced by conflict or persecution to flee from their homes.  In June of this year, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees... forbes.com   2 2 Retweets   5 5 likes If there is anything President Obama and these companies have shown, it’s that compassion will always win, and love always trumps hate."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		873	4521	1201.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450664601640674	"Hannity Gets His A** Handed To Him For Falsely Claiming Terence Crutcher Has Violent Criminal Past By Stephen D Foster Jr on September 22, 2016 11:58 am · Fox News host Sean Hannity desperately tried to smear Terence Crutcher on Wednesday as a violent criminal who was wanted by police but was repeatedly shut down by a local Tulsa news anchor.  Crutcher was shot and killed by white police police officer Betty Shelby even though he had his hands up and was surrounded by other police officers. The murder was caught on camera.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Clearly, the unarmed Crutcher was not a threat to the safety of the officers, especially when you consider the fact that police officers have consistently taken in armed white suspects alive without ever firing a shot at them.  But Sean Hannity repeatedly claimed during his radio show that Crutcher had a violent criminal record and had warrants out for his arrest.  “I understand that in this particular case Mr Crutcher has a long criminal history and appeared to be under the influence or so the police are charging,” Hannity said, which prompted Tulsa news anchor Russell Mills to smack Hannity down with facts.  “Well I’ll tell you I looked up his history and I’m not seeing a lot of criminal history,” Mills replied. “We have something called the OSCN – the Oklahoma Supreme Court Network. I was able to find a protective order from 12 years ago that was dismissed. I found a couple of financial things. There’s no violent criminal history for Mr. Crutcher that I’ve been able to uncover.”  But Hannity didn’t want to hear the truth so he moved on to claiming that Crutcher had several warrants out for his arrest.  Mills informed Hannity that there were no such warrants.  Hannity responded that he read somewhere that there were warrants.  “I have not seen any reporting on any warrants for Mr. Crutcher and I certainly haven’t uncovered any myself,” Mills said. “There has been some misinformation floated.”  A disappointed Hannity resorted to claiming that he has a “source” within the department and said that “it’s a matter of time of when they’re gonna release this information.”  Here’s the audio via Media Matters:    Once again, Sean Hannity tries to demonize another black victim of a police shooting in order to make people believe the shooting was totally justified. The bottom line, however, is that Crutcher had his hands up and was surrounded by officers. He wasn’t a threat to them or anyone else but they executed him anyway. Officer Betty Shelby should be arrested and charged with murder. Period."	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1150	3348	7101.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450712398302561		9/22/16	link	mostly false		3063	3971	10061.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450737838300017		9/22/16	link	mostly true		569	2151	5841.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450805958293205		9/22/16	link	mostly true		136	609	301.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450845401622594		9/22/16	link	mostly true		72	542	181.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450853194955148	"Hillary Clinton’s New Tax Plan Will Make Trump’s Kids FURIOUS By Wendy Gittleson on September 22, 2016 3:50 pm · Since the Reagan administration, Americans have been sold a bill of goods that tells us that inherited money is more valuable than earned money. Republicans would like all inherited money to be completely sheltered from any taxation, while for the most part, Democrats disagree. The compromise has been that only estates valued at a whopping $5.45 million or more ($10.9 million for married couples) are taxed. Anything below that is completely tax free.  Now, Hillary Clinton, after prodding from Bernie Sanders and his followers, has revised her estate tax plan and trust me when I say Donald Trump’s children won’t be happy.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Previously, Clinton said she would restore the tax on dead rich folks to its 2009 levels, pushing up the rate from 40 percent to 45 percent, and making it kick in for estates worth at least $3.5 million (today, it only hits those valued at $5.45 million or more). But, no longer. Instead, she’s borrowed a page from her formal primary rival, and now proposes turning the levy into a progressive tax—meaning it will take a bigger bite out of wealthier estates—with a top rate of 65 percent. The last time the estate tax hit that level was in 1982, though back then it also kicked in on smaller inheritances.  Beyond all that, Clinton has said she would largely do away with the step-up in basis at death, a rule that allows lucky heirs to avoid paying capital gains taxes that, say, their parents or uncle or other rich benefactor would have owed had they sold their stock before passing away.  In the end, the committee expects these measures to raise about $225 billion over ten years.  Source: Slate  As it stands, the estate tax system is a joke. In 2012, a staggering $1.2 trillion was passed down as an inheritance. Of that, less than 1 percent was taxed. As for the Republican argument that estate taxes will hurt small businesses, in 2013, only 20 small businesses and family farm estates, in the entire country, had to pay estate taxes.  The other common Republican argument is that estate taxes are “double taxation” (as if every other dollar in the American economy hasn’t been taxed multiple times), but the reality is that most of what comprises large estates comes from capital gains, which are also unlikely to have every been taxed.  Of course, even if Clinton is elected, she’ll have a tough time passing this, at least as long as Paul Ryan is in charge of the House. He wants Trump’s kids to pay zero in estate taxes. Of course, for all we know, Trump himself pays zero in taxes."	9/22/16	link	no factual content		205	2197	981.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450910671616067	"Trump Blames Charlotte Rioting On Drug Use, Without Any Proof By Ryan Denson on September 22, 2016 4:58 pm · Another day, another racist dog whistle echoed by Donald Trump. While the urban unrest in Charlotte, North Carolina continues, Trump – in a pathetic attempt to sound presidential – blamed the rioting on drug use, without citing any facts to back up his claim.  The comment, made in a speech in Pittsburgh, was off-script:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “If you’re not aware, drugs are a very, very big factor in what you’re watching on television.”  Somehow, everyone but Donald Trump is unaware of the “factors” contributing to a legitimate unrest that stems not from drugs, but from the black community being continuously fed up with racial injustices and the murders of unarmed men who posed no credible threat to law enforcement.  What Donald Trump is seeking to do is sow the seeds of a racist, stereotype that plagues this country: blacks are on drugs, and it makes them violent.  The facts are out there: white people do more drugs, and serve less time. This notion that because black Americans are fed up with injustice is somehow attributed to drug use or a yearning for drugs is, yes, racist. It reaffirms people’s ignorant and misguided stereotypes about urban black communities while simultaneously deflecting from other drug crises that are affecting white communities at much more critical levels.  Recent findings in the American Journal of Public Health, the abuse and dependency on “hard drugs” are “less common among delinquent African American youth than those who are non-Hispanic white.” White people, in general, are also more likely to deal drugs than black people. So the people selling drugs to our kids, parents, and members of the community are more likely to be white than black, but yet black people are still seen as the culprits of America’s drug problem.  And Donald Trump’s claim, no matter how minuscule it may be, just makes the problem worse.  Instead of accusing black Americans of being drug-induced degenerates, maybe Trump should travel up to New Hampshire and Maine, where an unprecedented opioid addiction is killing hundreds of white citizens every year, and nothing is being done to combat it.  Donald Trump says the unrest in Charlotte would not happen in a Trump administration. Would New England’s drug epidemic be stopped under his administration? Would the killing of unarmed black people – which is the only contribution to the unrest – stop in his administration? Would he end the dog whistle stereotypes that continue to blatantly fester in people’s minds, regardless of what the facts are?  Trump’s going to get a huge wake up call with black voters in November if he keeps this up."	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1222	2516	6761.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1450995121607622		9/22/16	link	mostly true		540	1632	7051.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451200324920435	" Trump Campaign Chair In Ohio Insists Racism Didn’t Exist Before Obama Was Elected 0 sharesShare on FacebookShare on Twitter Trump’s campaign chair of Mahoning County, Ohio, one of the most crucial counties in the state, made what might be the most delusional statement of the week.  She insisted that racism was literally non-existent before Obama was elected.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Wow, it doesn’t take much to tear apart how this assertion is completely absurd, but we’re going to take the time to do it anyway.  In an interview with The Guardian, Kathy Miller, the campaign chair in question, made the following shocking statement:  “I don’t think there was any racism until Obama got elected.  We never had problems like this.”  She must mean that white people were relatively shielded from being forced to face the fact that racism is, in fact, abound in white culture.  Even though that, in all honestly, is a load of bunk too.  She went on to make some extremely offensive statements to the black community overall, willfully remaining ignorant of how many hardships Black Americans face every. single. day:  “If you’re black and you haven’t been successful in the last 50 years, it’s your own fault.  You’ve had every opportunity, it was given to you.  You’ve had the same schools everybody else went to.  You had benefits to go to college that white kids didn’t have.  You had all the advantages and didn’t take advantage.  It’s not our fault, certainly.”  *Cringe*  Seeing as apparently this isn’t evident to people like Kathy Miller, and arguably much of Trump’s voter base, let’s just go through why this is completely bogus and extremely offensive.  She even went so far as to say that racism didn’t exist when she grew up…in the 1960s.  What?!  Segregation?!?!  Black people have had to deal with a racist criminal justice system which unfairly targets their community, damaging their families and placing their children at a disadvantage from the very beginning.  Black children have primarily had to go to schools which are dominated by a white power structure, a power structure which has certainly not gotten rid of its racist roots to this day.  Either that, or they often go to a school which is worse off economically.  Black people were literally enslaved or cut off from the resources and wealth of the white by law for centuries.  The racist nature within that legal system wasn’t just erased with the end of segregation.  Has it improved?  Sure, but that hasn’t addressed the structural racism within our socio-political and economic paradigm.  Because of a history of oppression, black people have been economically much worse off.  And children who come from poor families, as study after study shows, statistically do worse in school.  They also can’t afford skyrocketing college tuition when they get out of high school.  Black children are often disproportionately punished in schools, which harms their potential for academic success.  Honestly, I could go on and on, and I’m not even black, so I don’t know the half of it.  This lady is delusional, her beliefs are dangerous to the health of our society, and the fact that we have this kind of racism so prevalent in the Trump campaign, a United States presidential campaign, is horrifying.  But it’s all Obama’s fault, right?  UPDATE: Kathy Miller resigned after blowback from these comments."	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false			1265	5771.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451258538247947		9/23/16	link	mostly true		122	1641	2691.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451262898247511		9/23/16	link	mostly true		189	1111	6191.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451262981580836	"WHO SAW IT COMING?: TRUMP THREATENS DEBATE MODERATORS WITH RETRIBUTION IF THEY FACT CHECK HIM  38286 SHARES Facebook Twitter The question of what the role of a moderator is in a presidential debate has taken on a whole new significance during this election because Donald Trump, more so than any candidate in American history, has shown a willingness to lie, boldly and without apology, when he feels it suits him.  His ability to say, with a straight face, obvious lies that a typical human would find impossible due to a profound sense of shame make his appearance on the debate stage a singular moment in history.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Matt Lauer recently held what was billed as the “preview” of the debates with a one-on-one sit down with both candidates for an extended question-and-answer session. While Lauer grilled Clinton on her voting record and on (*sigh*) the emails, when it came time to question Trump he turned into a doormat.  Critics slammed the embarrassing way Lauer allowed Trump to lie to his face without any pushback. In one particularly blatant example, Trump falsely claimed that he had been opposed to the Iraq War from the very beginning, an easily debunked lie that Lauer was surely aware of.  The debates, many Americans hoped, would be different. If Trump chooses to openly lie to voters during the events, moderators should be expected to jump in and clarify the falsehoods.  Needless to say, the person making the most noise about this change of plans is…Donald Trump.  In an interview with Fox News, Trump claimed there would be people “watching” for moderators to fact check him and would react badly if he wasn’t allowed to say whatever he wanted.  First, Trump slammed Candy Crawley, who famously corrected Mitt Romney during a debate with President Obama. It has often been seen as a pivotal moment in that debate and the real-time fact check threw Romney off of his game for the rest of the night.  Trump would prefer he and Clinton get a chance to fight it out without interference, even if what he is saying are lies.  You know, I think there’s a lot of pressure on [first debate moderator Lester Holt]. I think Lester’s a very good person, a very good man. I think there’s a lot of pressure on him. You know, when I had the town hall, last week with Hillary, I did well, and I had tough questions. But the polls all had her taking a drubbing….They went after Matt Lauer, and I’ve never seen anything like it….That’s what they’re doing with Lester Holt…and a lot of people are watching to see whether he succumbs to that pressure. The difference between Trump’s camp and Clinton’s couldn’t be more apparent here. While Democrats are demanding the truth be the focal point of the night, conservatives – including Trump himself – are telling moderators that they should not worry about what is a lie and what isn’t.  As the Washington Post’s Greg Sergent noted:  In other words, one side wants the moderators to hold the candidates accountable, and the other doesn’t. We can argue endlessly over whether those in the former camp are trying to game the debates so that Trump faces tougher questioning than Clinton does. But the bottom line is that, given that it is simply true that Trump lies a lot more frequently, audaciously, and egregiously than Clinton does, and that it took many months before this was widely acknowledged in the press, most Clinton supporters would probably be just fine with equivalent treatment of both of their assertions at the debate, and if they aren’t, they should be. Republicans want Trump to lie. Democrats simply want both sides to tell the truth. It’s rare in politics to find such a clear contrast."	9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	2426	5873	10211.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451263971580737		9/23/16	link	mostly true		115	721	1951.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451304671576667		9/23/16	link	mostly true		258	1900	4251.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451600428213758		9/23/16	link	no factual content		234	645	501.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451738378199963		9/23/16	link	mostly true		513	1685	9831.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451779101529224		9/23/16	link	mostly true		98	518	1351.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451804061526728		9/23/16	link	mostly true		266	766	1581.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451890218184779		9/23/16	link	mostly true		104	1226	1191.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451956254844842		9/23/16	link	mostly true		123	1180	881.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451961101511024		9/23/16	link	mostly true		465	2116	1861.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1451988724841595		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5028	4650	6601.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452012371505897		9/23/16	link	mostly true		420	1373	1811.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452117881495346	"The Pope Flat Out Called Fox News Type Journalism ‘Terrorism’ By Wendy Gittleson on September 23, 2016 3:58 pm · Someone had to say it. Okay, liberals have been saying it for years. Fox News (and increasingly, the other news channels) have been promoting fear for so long that they have become the terrorists. Pope Francis agrees. Channeling Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s infamous line, “we have nothing to fear but fear itself,” the Pope chastised fear-based media.  Journalism based on gossip or rumors is a form of “terrorism” and media that stereotype entire populations or foment fear of migrants are acting destructively, Pope Francis said on Thursday.  Spreading rumors is an example of “terrorism, of how you can kill a person with your tongue”, he said. “This is even more true for journalists because their voice can reach everyone and this is a very powerful weapon.”  Source: Reuters  Now, to be fair, Pope Francis was in Italy and he was talking to Italy’s press, which has its own problems with nationalism, but I’m sure he was hoping his words would hop the pond. After all, Fox spreads little but fear and that’s what has given us Donald Trump.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel Crime in the nation is down. An American’s odds of being killed by a terrorist is 1 in 20 million. Those are roughly the same odds as being killed by your own furniture. Still, Trump, prompted on by Fox News, is scaring the crap out of Americans:  Fear is in the air, and fear is surging. Americans are more afraid today than they have been in a long time: Polls show majorities of Americans worried about being victims of terrorism and crime, numbers that have surged over the past year to highs not seen for more than a decade. Every week seems to bring a new large- or small-scale terrorist attack, at home or abroad. Mass shootings form a constant drumbeat. Protests have shut down large cities repeatedly, and some have turned violent. Overall crime rates may be down, but a sense of disorder is constant.  Source: The Atlantic  Sure, that’s about Donald Trump and the Pope wasn’t directly talking about him, but Fox is the fear network. Forward Progressives lists several examples of Fox trying to scare the s*it out of people, and if this election and polls are any indication, they’ve succeeded.  "	9/23/16	link	mostly false		4708	13821	4861.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452127004827767		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3658	9777	33881.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452159774824490		9/23/16	link	mostly true		321	3326	1681.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452308554809612		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1107	2870	2211.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452319888141812		9/23/16	link	mostly true		7855	7048	3921.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1452406928133108		9/23/16	link	mostly true		687	1673	1541.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1454798624560605		9/26/16	link	mostly true		930	4095	4281.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1454806031226531		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1354	4298	2091.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1454868161220318		9/26/16	link	mostly false		273	2423	3011.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1454906627883138		9/26/16	link	mostly true		533	1635	5521.46E+14	1.45E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1454907001216434	"TRUMP UNINVITES GENNIFER FLOWERS TO DEBATE AFTER GETTING HAMMERED FOR HOW DISGUSTING IT WAS (VIDEO)  14794 SHARES Facebook Twitter Anyone with even a little bit of decency was outraged when GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump decided to tweet out an off the cuff invitation for Gennifer Flowers, the woman who was involved in an extramarital affair scandal with former President Bill Clinton in the 1980s, to be his guest at the first presidential debate.   Follow  Donald J. Trump _ @realDonaldTrump If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right alongside of him! 10:08 AM - 24 Sep 2016   30,852 30,852 Retweets   63,767 63,767 likes Subscribe to our Youtube Channel The tweet was just another example of Trump’s lashing out when he feels slighted. Well, it seems that the Trump campaign realized what a sleazy and inappropriate move this was on the part of their candidate, and campaign surrogates and officials have been out in force to make sure that the whole world knows that Trump will not have Flowers there as his guest.  Trump campaign manager number three and official Trump whisperer Kellyane Conway said of the ruckus:  “We do not expect her to be a guest of the Trump campaign.” Conway went on to spew the bullshit excuse that there’s no way that Hillary will ever get under Trump’s skin:  “Mr. Trump was putting them on notice that we could certainly invite guests that make it into the head of Hillary Clinton.” The thing is, this is just disgusting. Hillary made the PERSONAL decision to stay with her husband, as many women do, after he had an affair. This nonsense is decades old, and should be in no way relevant to the 2016 race for the White House. This is something that is a low blow, sexist and is in no way appropriate for a serious political campaign.  Trump’s flirting with this invitation for Flowers to attend the debate is nothing more than a misogynist attempt to shame a woman for her personal decision to forgive the man she loves for mistakes within a marriage. In other words, it’s not appropriate to drag it up, and it is none of the public’s business. Further, it CERTAINLY has NOTHING to do with the current election.  This is just one more example of Trump’s grossly ill-suited temperament when it comes to occupying the highest office in this great land and leading the free world.  Watch Conway’s pathetic attempt to spin Trump’s bullshit on CNN below:    Follow  CNN Politics _ @CNNPolitics Donald Trump's campaign: Gennifer Flowers will not be at the debate http://cnn.it/2cNcAhi  9:30 AM - 25 Sep 2016   29 29 Retweets   32 32 likes "	9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		298	1475	2791.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455250911182043		9/26/16	link	mostly true		273	1014	1681.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455551614485306		9/26/16	link	mostly true		555	2176	3991.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455558234484644	"Networks Confirm They Will Not Be Fact-Checking Donald Trump In Any Way By Ryan Denson on September 26, 2016 10:41 am · There’s already been hints from NBC News that Lester Holt, the moderator for the first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, will not be fact checking the candidates. This, of course, will allow Trump to say anything he pleases without being held accountable – except by Hillary Clinton.  But to make matters worse, all cable news networks (including those critical of Trump) are pledging to be completely spineless, and will not offer any on-screen fact checks to any comments made by the candidates that are wrong:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel While on-screen fact-checking could help expose inaccurate or misleading assertions without interrupting the flow of the debate, nearly all of the major cable or broadcast networks, including Univision and Telemundo, said that they would not use any sort on screen fact check or graphics …. Thus, the burden of keeping the candidates honest will likely come down to Holt, the only other person on the stage.  After Politico documented that Trump lies on average every three-and-a-half minutes, one would think a fact checking process would be paramount to an honest, open debate on the issues. But sadly, the media, realizing their ratings are on the line, would rather kowtow to Donald Trump and his band of deplorable surrogates.  The Clinton campaign has been forceful in its effort to hold Trump accountable, with Clinton Campaign Communications Director Jennifer Palmieri telling reporters:  For the moderator to let lies like that that come out of his mouth at this debate to go unchallenged would give Donald Trump an unfair advantage. We do believe it is the role of the moderator … to call out those lies and to do that in real time.  Unfortunately, with Trump’s impending lies already on the brink of not being checked for falsehoods, it’s somehow up to Hillary Clinton to “shine” at the debate if she hopes to “win.” This double standard that the most qualified woman to every run for office has to go above and beyond that most unqualified nominee in history, just to look slightly better than him, is abhorrent.  Hopefully, Clinton will wipe the floor with Trump on the first debate, but with no one to back her up, it may be hard convincing the American people that she did it.  If there is one thing this election has shown us, it’s that journalism is dying, if not already dead."	9/26/16	link	mostly false		4587	7960	27701.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455568094483658		9/26/16	link	mostly true		605	1767	10011.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455575034482964	"Jewish Elders Warn Their Grandchildren: Vote For Hillary, ‘We’ve Seen This Before’ (VIDEO) By Ryan Denson on September 26, 2016 10:55 am · This election will ask us to choose one of the following: an overqualified, dignified woman, or a fascist, xenophobic billionaire. The woman, Hillary Clinton, has dedicated her life to fighting for the rights and dignities of all, while the man, Donald Trump, has fought only for himself and his pockets.  One group that tends to vote Democrat – but has been leaning a little more towards the right recently – are Jewish people. In 2008, 78 percent of Jewish Americans voted for President Obama, as did 74 percent in 2012.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel This year is different. Instead of facing off against John McCain or Mitt Romney, the Democrats are facing off against the definition of fascism and xenophobia. And they have a message to their grandchildren: vote for Hillary Clinton.  Why? Because they’ve seen this before.  In a video titled “A Message From Grandma & Grandpa: We’ve Seen This Before,” a group of elderly Jewish Americans plead with their younger generations to get out and vote, and warns against the type of man Donald Trump is. They “enlisted some powerful allies in the effort to defeat Donald Trump: grandparents.” And they aren’t holding back:  “This is probably one of the most important elections, because there is so much is at stake.”  Of course, their experiences with Germany take front and center:  “We have seen this before. We saw it in Germany, and don’t want to see it again.”  Their hatred for Trump is not hidden, and for good reason:  “Trump is more than a tyrant. He’s an obnoxious lying individual and I haven’t any respect for him. I have tremendous fears for the country and and for you, my grandchildren.”  Adding some lighthearted (but important) humor, one grandparent tells their grandkids:  “If you vote the future is yours. If you don’t vote for Hillary, and that crazy man Trump is elected, I’ll haunt you when I die.”  Another promises to be a major spoiler:  “I’ll spoil every episode of ‘Game of Thrones. When you’re having a dinner party, I’ll come down and say something racist, but if you’re voting for Trump, you probably don’t care.”  The powerful video, sponsored by Bend the Arc Jewish Action, was released to warn future generations not to forget their history, and to listen to the wisdom of their elders, especially ones that know oppression when they see it:  “We, as Jews, recognize that [Trump’s] candidacy has echoed times when the Jewish community experienced the dangers of fascism, anti-immigration and persecution against religious minorities. We’ve seen this before and we wanted to make sure that as Jews we were speaking out boldly and loudly and making sure it was known the Jewish community rejects Trump for the platform of hatred and bigotry that he has unleashed.”  Watch the powerful ad here:"	9/26/16	link	no factual content		7326	12324	3171.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455674111139723		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1378	2292	1771.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455844117789389		9/26/16	link	mostly true		769	2745	3431.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1455922947781506		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1156	6117	2291.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456117054428762		9/26/16	link	mostly true		6180	11698	4421.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456154411091693		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	1444	9170	16721.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456214201085714	"Here’s The Entire Debate Wrapped Up In One PERFECT GIF By Justin Acuff (Isaacs) on September 26, 2016 11:01 pm · There’s not much to say here. GIPHY killed it with this one:     Subscribe to our Youtube Channel  _ http://  1,158 Retweets1,772 likes "	9/26/16	link	no factual content	yes	131	1418	831.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456140261093108	"s Away From Anyone Without Due Process By Rika Christensen on September 26, 2016 10:33 pm · In discussing shootings and crime in the first of three presidential debates, Donald Trump not only greatly exaggerated the number of shootings in Chicago, and claimed that stop and frisk was both constitutional and effective, he also advocated taking guns away from people without due process. Of course, he thinks that the police would only take guns away from criminals, and that the Constitution is different for criminals, but everyone has a constitutional right to due process. Doesn’t matter to Trump, though:  “We have to take guns away…from bad people that shouldn’t have them.”  Those were Trump’s words in the debate, where he defended stop-and-frisk as constitutional despite the fact that it was literally ruled otherwise, and has also been deemed ineffective. How the NRA can possibly support a candidate that would take guns away from anybody at all without due process is beyond us. That’s especially true given the fact that this isn’t the first time Trump has said this:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “[Police officers are] proactive, and if they see a person possibly with a gun or they think they have a gun, they will see the person and they’ll look and they’ll take the gun away. They’ll stop, they’ll frisk and they’ll take the gun away, and they won’t have anything to shoot with.”  The 2nd Amendment cannot exist without due process. The NRA is literally supporting a candidate who would take guns away from law-abiding citizens. Literally."	9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	2283	3391	3731.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456154251091709	"Through the course of this election season, a dark cloud has hung over Trump’s campaign – OK, many dark clouds. Dark, racist, xenophobic, lying clouds. But the one we’re referencing here is “what the hell is going on with his taxes?”  The simple answer, as Trump revealed during the first presidential debate, is that The Donald simply hasn’t paid any federal income tax. Trump blamed Clinton for “squandering” taxpayer dollars, thus depriving us of much-needed infrastructure improvements — the kind Republicans like Trump typically vote against. Clinton, of course, took the opportunity to get in a dig about the GOP nominee’s own taxes.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel “Maybe because you haven’t paid any federal income tax in a lot of years,” Clinton shot back, expertly placing the bait in the trap. And, of course, she didn’t have to wait long for Trump to try to grab the cheese. To emphasize his point, he accidentally admitted that she’s exactly right:  “It would be squandered too, believe me.”  Pay attention to the word “would.” Trump would not have said that if he had paid taxes, which he called “smart” earlier in the debate.   Is this the reason he doesn’t want to reveal his taxes, which he says he will release “against his lawyer’s wishes” if Clinton releases deleted emails? Does Trump not want the voting public to know that he’s a deadbeat who absolutely does not pay his fair share?  When Trump says “believe me,” believe him — not that his tax dollars would be “squandered” but that he believes they “would” if he had paid any.  Watch the clip below:  "	9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	864	2948	2331.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456173967756404		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2478	5419	8321.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456218721085262	"Donald trump, who had just been beaten to a bloody pulp for 90 minutes by an opponent so far out of his league it’s preposterous, did the only thing he knows how to do: Claim he was treated unfairly:  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel  Follow  Donald J. Trump _ @realDonaldTrump Nothing on emails. Nothing on the corrupt Clinton Foundation. And nothing on #Benghazi. #Debates2016 #debatenight 7:40 PM - 26 Sep 2016   30,688 30,688 Retweets   58,142 58,142 likes Poor Donald. He looked like such a petulant little child up there. His obvious case of the sniffles aside, his lack of preparation, lack of personality, lack of ability to actually compose a coherent thought and lack of any human decency came through perfectly. No, Donald. Nobody wants to listen to right-wing conspiracy theories. Secretary Clinton covered emails. The Clinton Foundation, unlike your sham charities, actually does charitable work. Please go home, have a good cry and try again October 9th.  We here at Opposition Report would like to congratulate Secretary Clinton on not just a win but a blowout.  "	9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	818	3528	4021.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456237357750065	"Bill Maher’s #DebateNight Live Tweetstorm Was The Most Glorious Trump Takedown EVER By Shannon Barber on September 27, 2016 12:12 am · It’s no secret that Bill Maher, comedian extraordinaire and host of HBO’s Real Time, is no fan of GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. So, of course he couldn’t resist live tweeting the entire first general election presidential debate between Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. The whole thing was one brilliant insult against Trump after another. Here are a few of the better tweets:   Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher GOP won expectations game when it nominated an orangutan. As long as he doesn't fling his poop, ""Surprisingly dignified Trump last night"" 6:00 PM - 26 Sep 2016   1,810 1,810 Retweets   4,848 4,848 likes Subscribe to our Youtube Channel  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Want to see Hillary come out and say ""The Russians just handed me your tax returns"" just to see if Trump bolts 6:02 PM - 26 Sep 2016   3,322 3,322 Retweets   8,498 8,498 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Trump adjusting his Spanx right now, and one final pass with the can of Final Net... 6:03 PM - 26 Sep 2016   815 815 Retweets   3,308 3,308 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Trump proud of himself that he called her ""Secretary Clinton"" - as opposed to what, Bitchula? 6:15 PM - 26 Sep 2016   2,219 2,219 Retweets   7,207 7,207 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Trump. Wearing a tie made in China, just sayin' 6:16 PM - 26 Sep 2016   6,552 6,552 Retweets   12,273 12,273 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher OK,I hope she's playing rope-a-dope, and I do mean dope, because I'm getting tired of this vile nincompoop bullying and lieing and its early 6:25 PM - 26 Sep 2016   2,775 2,775 Retweets   9,141 9,141 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Trump: ""Being in Iraq was a disaster, but we shld take the oil""WE WLD HAVE TO BE BACK IN IRAQ TO TAKE THE OIL! They won't give it to a drone 7:16 PM - 26 Sep 2016   2,374 2,374 Retweets   6,627 6,627 likes  Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher btw, you know a charge agst Trump is 100% provably true when he interrupts with ""Wrong!"" #debates 7:18 PM - 26 Sep 2016   5,603 5,603 Retweets   13,811 13,811 likes And, of course, for his closers, Maher had to do what he’s been doing on his show ever since it became clear who the nominees would be, and hit those who refuse to vote for Hillary:   Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher However this comes out, I have so little respect for the electorate just that its this close. She's right, she shld be 50 points ahead. 7:25 PM - 26 Sep 2016   8,267 8,267 Retweets   22,858 22,858 likes But he definitely saved his best line for last, as he called Trump his favorite phrase:   Follow  Bill Maher _ @billmaher Negative ads in a political race are ""not nice?"" There's no crying in politics, you #WhinyLittleBitch! 7:38 PM - 26 Sep 2016   9,339 9,339 Retweets   22,235 22,235 likes Let’s face it, no matter how Trump’s surrogates try to spin this — and they are already out in force doing their damndest — he lost this thing tonight, badly. He made an absolute fool of himself. There’s just no way around it. Of course, his uneducated core supporters will still vote for him, but there’s no way this one got the undecided voters into Trump’s corner. The one thing tonight did do, though, is give us plenty of entertainment."	9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	901	4563	1181.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456244677749333		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1275	3156	3421.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456259001081234		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	218	1808	1131.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456274954412972		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	247	2467	1261.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456275241079610		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	362	3086	2241.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456673304373137		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	586	2327	1511.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456727697701031		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	276	1549	4171.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456768787696922		9/27/16	link	mostly true		273	1316	4971.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456866627687138		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	220	2193	2361.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456879957685805		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2188	4154	3211.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456923867681414	"Enough Excuses: Five Ways Hillary Won The Debate Hands Down By Ryan Denson on September 27, 2016 2:15 pm · Last night America finally got to see Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton together in the same room. And just as expected, there was some much pent up sparring. Once the evening had concluded, it was evident who won that debate, no questions asked: Hillary Clinton.  No one should be surprised. While the media has been speculating that viewers would once again see a “Trump pivot,” the facts remain the same — what we saw on the debate stage was the same Trump we saw during the Republican primaries — a brash, condescending, loudmouthed bully who has no plans, only talking points.  Subscribe to our Youtube Channel All the pundits know it. The polls know it. The people know it. Hillary Clinton won because she was prepared, she was eloquent, and she kept her cool. But not surprisingly, Trump and his band of surrogates didn’t get the memo. They think they won. Because why not?  Trump (and his people) say Lester Holt was unfair. They say the microphone was tampered with. They say Hillary Clinton was “too prepared” so it was an unfair advantage. They say the media was too biased.  Excuse after excuse, Trump refuses to take responsibility for his actions. he was unprepared, he was disrespectful, he couldn’t elaborate, and he got personal.  But enough about Trump and his candy-ass excuses. Let’s talk about why Hillary Clinton was clearly the winner.  She was prepared   Look no further than her best zinger of the night: “I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. And, yes, I did. And you know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president. And I think that’s a good thing.” It’s been reported that Clinton immersed herself with the issues of our times, poring over research, conducting rehearsals, and doing her homework. Trump, on the other hand, was taking a casual, passive approach to the debates, and it showed. He couldn’t elaborate, he didn’t show decorum, and he didn’t know how to respond to Clinton’s assertions — except with lies.  She was tough, yet composed  The bar was set pretty low due to Trump. Clinton knew she had to somewhat get on his level, but stay true to who she really is. This debate ended up being something special. She was up against a loud, bombastic, unpredictable bully who says whatever he pleases. Luckily for her, she didn’t take any of his lies personally. She fact checked him when Holt wouldn’t. She smiled politely as he sunk into the abyss with his never ending rambles. She wasn’t “too loud” as the pundits like to call it, but she was forceful when need be. And, even though it’s a stupid assessment (but somehow matters), she smiled.  She respected Holt and upheld decorum   One of the reasons people hate debates is because they find that the moderators don’t do their jobs. They allow the candidates to walk all over them, they go over their allotted time, they interrupt each other. It gets annoying. Luckily, Trump was in stark contrast to Hillary Clinton. She listened to Holt when he told her that her time was up, and rarely interrupted Holt to attack Trump. While Trump interrupted Clinton 51 times, she interrupted Trump only 17 times. At the end, Clinton shook Holt’s hand, and Trump did not.  She was fundamentally honest  While Trump’s famous “Crooked Hillary” was front and center on Snapchat, the facts paint a different story. NPR, the non-partisan gold standard of what’s left of journalism, did an in-depth fact check analysis and showed that, surprise, Trump lied way more than Clinton, while Clinton’s claims were mostly upheld as true.  She had the better plan  While Donald Trump painted America as third world, crime-riddled hellhole, Clinton offered us a hopeful, inspiring message of bringing back jobs, fixing broken race relations, and investigating in future generations. Her plan would create 10 million jobs — his would cut 3.5 million. She wants to curb gun violence against black youth by holding them and communities (yes, that includes police officers) accountable. Trump wants to implement the unconstitutional and ineffective Stop and Frisk. Surprisingly, the agreed on several issues, such as the No-Fly gun ban, opposition to the TPP, and a need to bring jobs back from overseas. But simply put, her way, not “Trumped up trickle down,” will get us there.  This is why Clinton won. She was the stronger candidate, and she shined while everyone was hoping it would be the other way around. Trump devolved into his classic self as she increasingly got under his skin.  No, it wasn’t Holt’s fault. No, it wasn’t the microphone’s fault. No, it wasn’t Hillary’s fault. It was Trump’s fault, plain and simple. Maybe he’ll take preparation a little more seriously for next time. Or maybe not. it is Trump, after all."	9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	305	2351	1531.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1456984601008674		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	291	1909	5091.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457086207665180		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2119	4853	14041.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457100920997042		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	913	5265	1821.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457164467657354		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	2292	7051	9321.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457178897655911		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	153	1054	2341.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457297090977425		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1040	4425	1351.46E+14	1.46E+15	left	Addicting Info	https://www.facebook.com/AddictingInfoOrg/posts/1457326974307770		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	4000	6878	2552.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281392611902569		9/19/16	link	mostly true		8	61	622.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281494028559094		9/19/16	link	mostly true		6	38	392.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281555051886325		9/19/16	link	mostly true		122	521	2142.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281614831880347		9/19/16	link	mostly true		19	90	882.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281662605208903		9/19/16	link	mostly true		119	541	2062.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281683768540120		9/19/16	link	mostly true		21	135	572.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281703098538187		9/19/16	link	mostly true		58	492	4142.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281708098537687		9/19/16	link	mostly true		29	219	1362.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281724775202686		9/19/16	link	mostly true		46	634	2292.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281744528534044		9/19/16	link	mostly true		33	548	3052.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281765311865299		9/19/16	link	mostly true		17	92	662.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281774175197746		9/19/16	link	mostly true		75	404	3102.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281789468529550		9/19/16	link	mostly true		21	125	942.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281811718527325		9/19/16	link	mostly true		101	621	5642.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281841601857670		9/19/16	link	mostly true		19	132	862.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281903745184789		9/19/16	link	mostly true		78	513	4242.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281935428514954		9/19/16	link	mostly true		85	793	4032.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281960621845768		9/19/16	link	mostly true		170	1444	4862.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1281987158509781		9/19/16	link	mostly true		28	284	1502.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282015625173601		9/19/16	link	mostly true		3	37	512.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282017338506763		9/19/16	link	mostly true		187	1681	5482.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282043955170768		9/19/16	link	mostly true		142	1063	4432.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282069881834842		9/19/16	link	mostly true		87	761	4042.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282097745165389		9/19/16	link	mostly true		17	124	402.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282129008495596		9/19/16	link	mostly true		55	299	1312.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282165758491921		9/19/16	link	mostly true		46	674	3392.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282194065155757		9/19/16	link	mostly true		130	633	4262.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282217985153365		9/19/16	link	mostly true		6	56	302.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282229875152176		9/19/16	link	mostly true		72	584	2152.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282252058483291		9/19/16	link	mostly true		156	377	2842.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282286438479853		9/19/16	link	mostly true		11	88	1172.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282313501810480		9/19/16	link	mostly true		150	636	3822.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282326468475850		9/19/16	link	mostly true		17	138	1302.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282350721806758		9/19/16	link	mostly true		95	251	2312.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282376328470864		9/19/16	link	mostly true		22	285	1852.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282411005134063		9/19/16	link	mostly true		4	32	602.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282437811798049		9/19/16	link	mostly true		224	907	5512.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282455731796257		9/19/16	link	mostly true		39	185	2772.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282476425127521		9/19/16	link	mostly true		128	694	3162.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282497611792069		9/19/16	link	mostly true		36	559	4202.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282528355122328		9/19/16	link	mostly true		10	55	572.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282551825119981		9/19/16	link	mostly true		48	355	1602.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282581455117018		9/19/16	link	mostly true		33	293	3252.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282592388449258		9/19/16	link	mostly true		264	1274	6752.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282605311781299		9/19/16	link	mostly true		36	284	2882.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282620601779770	"George H.W. Bush for Hillary? A spokesman isn't saying  By Jeff Zeleny and Daniella Diaz, CNN Updated 2:44 PM ET, Tue September 20, 2016 WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 21: Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush attend the Points of Light Institute Tribute to Former President George H.W. Bush at The John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts on March 21, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kris Connor/Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Bill Clinton;George H.W. Bush Loaded: 0%Progress: 0%0:01 Republican presidential candidate, Ohio Gov. John Kasich speaks at a rally at the Monroe County Community College, Monday, March 7, 2016, in Monroe, Mich. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio) Kasich: Trump created toxic environment  Bernie Sanders wins case to allow 17-year-olds vote  Republicans divided over strategy to beat Trump  Trump, Cruz and Rubio on CNN's Snapchat Republican Presidential hopeful Ben Carson speaks during the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) 2016 at National Harbor in Oxon Hill, Maryland, outside Washington, March 4, 2016. / AFP / SAUL LOEB        (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) Ben Carson endorses Donald Trump  GOP debate in 90 Seconds  Clinton: I was the first one who came out against Trump  The Univision Democratic debate in 90 seconds  Highlights from the Super Tuesday 2 speeches  House of Cards star Michael Kelly (Doug Stamper) Gets Political  12 Hashtags to describe how conservatives feel about the election MANCHESTER, NH - FEBRUARY 08:  Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump walks on stage as he is introduced during a campaign rally at Verizon Wireless Arena on February 8, 2016 in Manchester, New Hampshire. Democratic and Republican Presidential candidates are finishing up with the last full day of campaigning before voters head to the polls tomorrow.  (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) What people thought about a Trump candidacy in the 90s WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 21: Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush attend the Points of Light Institute Tribute to Former President George H.W. Bush at The John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts on March 21, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kris Connor/Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Bill Clinton;George H.W. BushNow Playing The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster  How did Trump, Clinton differ in terror attack response?  On transparency, how do Trump and Clinton stack up?  CNN/ORC polls: Trump leads Clinton in Florida, Ohio  Clinton, Trump throwdown at presidential forum lindsey graham president election blitzer tsr sot_00001011.jpg Graham: Undecided on Clinton or Trump for president  Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton prepare to debate sara murray trump clinton spar on national security_00000000.jpg Clinton, Trump trade jabs over national security Former Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney delivers remarks during the second day of the 40th annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) March 15, 2013 in National Harbor, Maryland.  Romney reads mean tweets from Trump supporters Donald Trump protesters rhetoric history orig vstan dlewis_00000000.jpg Donald Trump's incendiary rhetoric history rubio supporting gop nominee carroll sot nr_00011913.jpg Rubio: 'I'll support nominee, but it's getting harder'  Sanders: Rally violence is not what America is about Republican presidential candidate, Ohio Gov. John Kasich speaks at a rally at the Monroe County Community College, Monday, March 7, 2016, in Monroe, Mich. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio) Kasich: Trump created toxic environment  Bernie Sanders wins case to allow 17-year-olds vote  Republicans divided over strategy to beat Trump  Trump, Cruz and Rubio on CNN's Snapchat Republican Presidential hopeful Ben Carson speaks during the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) 2016 at National Harbor in Oxon Hill, Maryland, outside Washington, March 4, 2016. / AFP / SAUL LOEB        (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) Ben Carson endorses Donald Trump  GOP debate in 90 Seconds  Clinton: I was the first one who came out against Trump  The Univision Democratic debate in 90 seconds  Highlights from the Super Tuesday 2 speeches  House of Cards star Michael Kelly (Doug Stamper) Gets Political  12 Hashtags to describe how conservatives feel about the election MANCHESTER, NH - FEBRUARY 08:  Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump walks on stage as he is introduced during a campaign rally at Verizon Wireless Arena on February 8, 2016 in Manchester, New Hampshire. Democratic and Republican Presidential candidates are finishing up with the last full day of campaigning before voters head to the polls tomorrow.  (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) What people thought about a Trump candidacy in the 90s WASHINGTON, DC - MARCH 21: Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush attend the Points of Light Institute Tribute to Former President George H.W. Bush at The John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts on March 21, 2011 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kris Connor/Getty Images) *** Local Caption *** Bill Clinton;George H.W. Bush The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster  How did Trump, Clinton differ in terror attack response?  On transparency, how do Trump and Clinton stack up?  CNN/ORC polls: Trump leads Clinton in Florida, Ohio  Clinton, Trump throwdown at presidential forum lindsey graham president election blitzer tsr sot_00001011.jpg Graham: Undecided on Clinton or Trump for president  Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton prepare to debate sara murray trump clinton spar on national security_00000000.jpg Clinton, Trump trade jabs over national security Former Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney delivers remarks during the second day of the 40th annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) March 15, 2013 in National Harbor, Maryland.  Romney reads mean tweets from Trump supporters Donald Trump protesters rhetoric history orig vstan dlewis_00000000.jpg Donald Trump's incendiary rhetoric history rubio supporting gop nominee carroll sot nr_00011913.jpg Rubio: 'I'll support nominee, but it's getting harder'  Sanders: Rally violence is not what America is about Story highlights The Bushes have remained silent about the 2016 election A former Maryland lieutenant governor says Bush is voting for Clinton Washington (CNN)A daughter of Robert Kennedy, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, said in a Facebook post that former Republican President George H.W. Bush told her he's voting for -- wait for it -- Hillary Clinton.  Townsend, a Democrat who served as Maryland lieutenant governor for eight years and goes by Hartington online, posted a photo with the former president to Facebook: ""The President told me he's voting for Hillary!!"" wrote Kennedy Townsend, a niece of President John F. Kennedy. Jim McGrath, a spokesman for Bush, did not confirm nor deny the claim.  ""The vote President Bush will cast as a private citizen in some 50 days will be just that: a private vote cast in some 50 days,"" McGrath told CNN. ""He is not commenting on the presidential race in the interim."" Townsend met with Bush at the family compound in Kennebunkport, Maine, during a board meeting for the bipartisan Points of Light Foundation. Sources with knowledge of the conversation told CNN's Jamie Gangel they were surprised and disappointed that she had publicly shared a private conversation with the former president. The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster  The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster 01:59 Find out all you need to know for the 2016 election on ""The Daily DC"" podcast If George H.W. Bush ultimately votes for Clinton, he isn't likely to sway his entire family. Marvin Bush, the former president's youngest son, has said he would vote for Libertarian Gary Johnson. George P. Bush, George H.W. Bush's grandson, has backed Donald Trump. And Jeb Bush, Trump's former primary rival, has said he won't vote for Trump or Clinton."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		403	2518	3892.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282630751778755		9/19/16	link	mostly true		17	78	1122.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282723245102839		9/20/16	link	mostly true		28	375	2042.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282764081765422		9/20/16	link	mostly true		30	162	1432.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282820688426428		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1	89	772.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282869868421510		9/20/16	link	mostly true		4	58	452.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282869888421508		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2	36	332.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282889278419569		9/20/16	link	mostly true		9	95	952.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282890125086151		9/20/16	link	mostly true		22880	6899	11452.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282910285084135		9/20/16	link	mostly true		99	888	4022.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282932578415239		9/20/16	link	mostly true		554	1672	12482.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282957221746108		9/20/16	link	mostly true		103	733	4682.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282994721742358		9/20/16	link	mostly true		14	116	752.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1282994741742356		9/20/16	link	mostly true		19	207	2242.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283021998406297		9/20/16	link	mostly true		57	451	1462.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283027511739079		9/20/16	link	mostly true		39	270	1822.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283071681734662		9/20/16	link	mostly true		53	433	2042.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283106105064553		9/20/16	link	mostly true		579	2805	3742.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283143941727436		9/20/16	link	mostly true		36	463	2302.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283178915057272		9/20/16	link	mostly true		7	76	622.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283237355051428		9/20/16	link	mostly true		31	455	2272.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283262835048880		9/20/16	link	mostly true		183	654	2582.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283288858379611		9/20/16	link	mostly true		231	1224	5492.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283316031710227		9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	169	1002.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283341205041043		9/20/16	link	mostly true		43	293	2482.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283366795038484		9/20/16	link	mostly true		187	596	4022.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283381595037004		9/20/16	link	mostly true		651	1418	5582.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283398388368658		9/20/16	link	mostly true		23	363	1472.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283410755034088		9/20/16	link	mostly true		29	68	232.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283424528366044		9/20/16	link	mostly true		288	2459	5872.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283436318364865		9/20/16	link	mostly true		20	164	872.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283448885030275		9/20/16	link	mostly true		37	254	1982.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283456028362894		9/20/16	link	mostly true		96	352	1222.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283466808361816		9/20/16	link	mostly true		127	1015	2602.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283476095027554	"Sources: Bush 41 says he will vote for Clinton Eric Bradner By Jamie Gangel and Eric Bradner, CNN Updated 10:55 AM ET, Wed September 21, 2016 Sources: Bush 41 says he will vote for Clinton hillary clinton headquarters crowd reaction crying leaving keilar _00012001.jpg People crying, leaving Clinton headquarters  Donald Trump wins Florida, CNN projects Democrat Presidential nominee Hillary Clinton looks on during an event on climate change at Miami Dade College-Kendall Campus  in Miami, Florida October 11, 2016. /  Hillary Clinton sends tweet during election uncertainty  Donald Trump wins Ohio, CNN projects  CNN 9p ET projection: Trump wins 7 states, Clinton 1 ALEXANDRIA, VA - NOVEMBER 08:  Local resident Kendra Isaacson (L) waits in-line with her 11-month-old daughter Katie Isaacson for casting her ballot outside a polling place on Election Day November 8, 2016 in Alexandria, Virginia. Americans across the nation are picking their choice for the next president of the United States.  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Mother-Daughter Election Day Donald Trump lawsuit Nevada voting sot_00014011.jpg Tense moment between Trump lawyer and judge  Clinton wins Vermont, Trump takes Kentucky and Indiana Former U.S. President George H.W. Bush looks on during a game between the North Carolina State Wolfpack and the Duke Blue Devils at Cameron Indoor Stadium in  2014 in Durham, North Carolina.  Sources: Bush 41 says he will vote for Clinton  Clinton and Trump aides clash Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks before introducing his newly selected vice presidential running mate Mike Pence, governor of Indiana, during an event at the Hilton Midtown Hotel, July 16, 2016 in New York City.  Push back on Trump's voter fraud allegations MANCHESTER, NH - APRIL 12: Donald Trump speaks at the Freedom Summit at The Executive Court Banquet Facility April 12, 2014 in Manchester, New Hampshire. The Freedom Summit held its inaugural event where national conservative leaders bring together grassroots activists on the eve of tax day. Photo by Darren McCollester/Getty Images) Trump tweets slam Clinton over recount US Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton (R) and US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump shake hands at the end of the second presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, on October 9, 2016. / AFP / Robyn Beck        (Photo credit should read ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images) Duffy: I'm with Trump - don't go after Clinton US President-elect  Donald Trump leaves after a meeting at the New York Times on November 22, 2016 in New York. US President-elect Trump said Tuesday he has an open-mind about pulling out of world climate accords and admitted global warming may be in some way linked to human activity.&quot;I think there is some connectivity. Some, something. It depends on how much,&quot; he told a panel of New York Times journalists.   / AFP / TIMOTHY A. CLARY        (Photo credit should read TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/Getty Images) Trump backs away from pledge to prosecute Clinton  The election night twists and turns in under 2 minutes  Emotional Van Jones: How do I explain this to my children? hillary clinton headquarters crowd reaction crying leaving keilar _00012001.jpg People crying, leaving Clinton headquarters  Donald Trump wins Florida, CNN projects Democrat Presidential nominee Hillary Clinton looks on during an event on climate change at Miami Dade College-Kendall Campus  in Miami, Florida October 11, 2016. /  Hillary Clinton sends tweet during election uncertainty  Donald Trump wins Ohio, CNN projects  CNN 9p ET projection: Trump wins 7 states, Clinton 1 ALEXANDRIA, VA - NOVEMBER 08:  Local resident Kendra Isaacson (L) waits in-line with her 11-month-old daughter Katie Isaacson for casting her ballot outside a polling place on Election Day November 8, 2016 in Alexandria, Virginia. Americans across the nation are picking their choice for the next president of the United States.  (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Mother-Daughter Election Day Donald Trump lawsuit Nevada voting sot_00014011.jpg Tense moment between Trump lawyer and judge  Clinton wins Vermont, Trump takes Kentucky and Indiana Former U.S. President George H.W. Bush looks on during a game between the North Carolina State Wolfpack and the Duke Blue Devils at Cameron Indoor Stadium in  2014 in Durham, North Carolina.  Sources: Bush 41 says he will vote for Clinton  Clinton and Trump aides clash Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks before introducing his newly selected vice presidential running mate Mike Pence, governor of Indiana, during an event at the Hilton Midtown Hotel, July 16, 2016 in New York City.  Push back on Trump's voter fraud allegations MANCHESTER, NH - APRIL 12: Donald Trump speaks at the Freedom Summit at The Executive Court Banquet Facility April 12, 2014 in Manchester, New Hampshire. The Freedom Summit held its inaugural event where national conservative leaders bring together grassroots activists on the eve of tax day. Photo by Darren McCollester/Getty Images) Trump tweets slam Clinton over recount US Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton (R) and US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump shake hands at the end of the second presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, on October 9, 2016. / AFP / Robyn Beck        (Photo credit should read ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images) Duffy: I'm with Trump - don't go after Clinton US President-elect  Donald Trump leaves after a meeting at the New York Times on November 22, 2016 in New York. US President-elect Trump said Tuesday he has an open-mind about pulling out of world climate accords and admitted global warming may be in some way linked to human activity.&quot;I think there is some connectivity. Some, something. It depends on how much,&quot; he told a panel of New York Times journalists.   / AFP / TIMOTHY A. CLARY        (Photo credit should read TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/Getty Images) Trump backs away from pledge to prosecute Clinton  The election night twists and turns in under 2 minutes  Emotional Van Jones: How do I explain this to my children? Story highlights Bush's decision is a stunning political move Bush shared his plans during what he believed was a private gathering Monday (CNN)Former President George H.W. Bush said Monday that he will vote for Hillary Clinton in November, according to sources close to the 41st President -- an extraordinary rebuke of his own party's nominee.  The sources said this was not the first time Bush had disclosed his intention to vote for Clinton. The comments came during a receiving line for board members of the bipartisan Points of Light Foundation when Bush was speaking to Kathleen Hartington Kennedy Townsend, Robert F. Kennedy's daughter and the former Maryland lieutenant governor. There were roughly 40 people in the room, and it's not clear how many people heard him, though multiple sources did. The Republican former president's embrace of the Democratic nominee represents a dramatic new chapter in the complicated three-decade-old relationship between the two most prominent families in American politics. It's a stunning political move -- one that comes just 49 days from the election, and less than a week before Clinton and Donald Trump square off in their first debate. Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, told CNN's Erin Burnett Tuesday that she respects ""the 92-year-old former president very much and his decision."" ""It is ironic that he would vote for the wife of the man who knocked him out of the race,"" she added on ""Erin Burnett OutFront."" ""But look, this was a bruising primary ... so I know there are a lot of hurt feelings there."" News of his support for Clinton came first on Facebook, when Kennedy Townsend posted a photo of herself with George H.W. Bush, along with the caption: ""The President told me he's voting for Hillary!!"" Kennedy Townsend sits on the advisory board of the Points of Light Foundation. Bush family representatives declined to respond publicly. ""The vote President Bush will cast as a private citizen in some 50 days will be just that: a private vote cast in some 50 days. He is not commenting on the presidential race in the interim,"" Bush spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement. But sources with knowledge of the conversation told CNN they were surprised and disappointed that Kennedy Townsend had publicly shared a private conversation with the former president. The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster  The Bush and Clinton relationship roller coaster 01:59 Kennedy Townsend declined to comment through a spokesman at the Rock Creek Group, where she works as managing director. She later took down the Facebook post. GOP's Trump divide Trump's controversial candidacy has split the group of former Republican nominees. Mitt Romney has hammered Trump in speeches and on Twitter, calling him unfit for office. But former Kansas Sen. Bob Dole has endorsed Trump, as has Arizona Sen. John McCain -- though somewhat reluctantly, often referring to ""the Republican nominee"" rather than Trump by name. Neither George H.W. Bush nor George W. Bush had weighed in on the general election -- even as Trump savaged George W. Bush's decision to go to war in Iraq. However, many of the 41st and 43rd presidents' Cabinet secretaries and national security officials have backed Clinton. George H.W. Bush national security adviser Brent Scowcroft endorsed Clinton in June, saying she ""has the wisdom and experience to lead our country at this critical time."" George W. Bush Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said on CNN in August that he ""would have preferred Jeb Bush, but I think Hillary is a great choice. I am afraid of what Donald Trump would do to this country."" Donald Trump&#39;s empire Photos: Donald Trump's rise And Louis Wade Sullivan, the Health and Human Services secretary under George H.W. Bush and the only African-American in his Cabinet, said this month that ""though my enthusiasm for Hillary Clinton is somewhat tempered, I certainly believe she is an infinitely better choice for president than Donald Trump."" But George H.W. Bush isn't speaking for his entire family. Marvin Bush, the former president's youngest son, has said he would vote for Libertarian Gary Johnson. George P. Bush, George H.W. Bush's grandson, has backed Trump. And Jeb Bush, Trump's former primary rival, has said he won't vote for Trump or Clinton. A representative for George W. Bush wouldn't comment on Kennedy Townsend's Facebook post or how George H.W. Bush would vote. The representative simply said George W. Bush is ""spending his time working to keep the Senate in Republican hands and is not commenting on the presidential campaign."" The Bush-Clinton relationship The evolving relationship between the Bush and Clinton families began in 1992, when Bill Clinton ran against -- and defeated -- incumbent President George H.W. Bush. Eight years later, with Clinton term-limited out of office, Bush's son, then-Texas Gov. George W. Bush, succeeded Clinton on a pledge to ""restore honor and dignity"" to the White House -- a not-so-subtle knock on Clinton's marital infidelity. A look at political families Photos: A look at political families But Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush have also spent their post-presidencies teaming up for philanthropic endeavors. And in recent years, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush have increasingly appeared together. The two grew so close that George W. Bush has referred to Clinton as his ""brother from another mother,"" and Clinton has said the two bonded over becoming grandfathers. A Bush-Clinton matchup Early in the 2016 campaign cycle, it appeared the two families could be headed for another showdown with the presidency on the line: Hillary Clinton was seeking the Democratic nomination, while former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush -- the 41st president's son and the 43rd president's brother -- was a Republican candidate and a fundraising powerhouse. Even if George H.W. Bush hadn't endorsed Hillary Clinton, it was hard to envision him backing Trump. Neither of the former Bush presidents attended the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, where Trump became the GOP's nominee -- with the Bush family staying out of presidential politics after Jeb Bush, denounced repeatedly by Trump as ""low-energy,"" exited the race. CLARIFICATION: This story has been updated to clarify the context in which George H.W. Bush made his comment about voting for Hillary Clinton."	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		271	1554	3752.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283484068360090		9/20/16	link	mostly true		41	340	5332.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283495701692260		9/20/16	link	mostly true		14	56	482.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283507681691062		9/20/16	link	mostly true		5	39	472.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283530558355441	"Introducing #MyVote: A nationwide social tour to Election Day  By Christina Manduley, CNN Updated 4:02 PM ET, Tue September 20, 2016 my vote cnn instagram ca tech facebook _00001225 Pause Current Time 0:00 / Duration Time 0:00 Progress: 0%0:00Fullscreen 00:00 Mute Configuration  Project #MyVote launches on CNN 00:34 Story highlights CNN's #MyVote camper and projection tour will cover swing states and presidential debate sites It's aimed at going beyond polls to provide voices of actual voters (CNN)CNN announced Monday a nationwide tour of key swing states, presidential debate sites and destinations around the country on the #MyVote camper and projection tour, in partnership with Instagram, Facebook and CA Technologies.  #MyVote launched steps from the White House at the Newseum in Washington, where the camper displayed the first in a series of campaign trail photos taken by the Instagram community via an immersive, one-of-a-kind virtual projection experience. The public can see these images at each debate stop and more locations to be announced as the tour unfolds. CNN correspondents Chris Moody and Vanessa Yurkevich will travel with the #MyVote camper, report from the ground and talk to citizens to capture the faces and voices of the people. They aim to go beyond the polls and the noise to grasp the real pulse of America. At the tour stops, members of the community are invited to enter the #MyVote camper and take a photo with either a red, blue or purple background filter. They can then share that photo on Instagram, using the #MyVote hashtag. CNN will be gathering the data collected on the tour and folding it into the election coverage. The #MyVote camper will serve as CNN's Facebook Live HQ and the social media hub on the road trip and at each presidential debate location stop in New York, Missouri, Virginia and Nevada."	9/20/16	link	no factual content		2	37	822.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283552648353232		9/20/16	link	mostly true		75	285	1872.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283566075018556		9/20/16	link	no factual content		88	555	2102.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283569618351535		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		269	1195	2552.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283593158349181		9/20/16	link	mostly true		150	208	1772.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283615991680231		9/20/16	link	mostly true		71	436	4332.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283646498343847		9/20/16	link	mostly true		16	211	1232.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283655648342932		9/20/16	link	mostly true		59	371	2922.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283665621675268		9/20/16	link	mostly true		14	169	882.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283675641674266		9/20/16	link	mostly true		222	602	3512.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283687831673047		9/20/16	link	mostly true		16	67	532.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283702825004881		9/20/16	link	mostly true		9	50	392.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283703708338126		9/20/16	link	mostly true		21	112	1292.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283714945003669		9/20/16	link	mostly true		10	44	302.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283726711669159		9/20/16	link	mostly true		18	192	2102.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283737188334778		9/20/16	link	mostly true		260	1042	7682.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283746471667183		9/20/16	link	mostly true		25	174	882.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283760908332406		9/20/16	link	mostly true		11	60	702.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283845758323921		9/20/16	link	mostly true		56	184	2242.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283904064984757		9/21/16	link	mostly true		64	250	1402.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1283950938313403		9/21/16	link	mostly true		17	88	562.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284002751641555		9/21/16	link	mostly true		46	259	1262.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284049991636831		9/21/16	link	mostly true		53	374	1382.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284072898301207		9/21/16	link	mostly true		63	313	1382.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284090981632732		9/21/16	link	mostly true		7	93	802.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284107788297718		9/21/16	link	mostly true		115	775	5442.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284138178294679		9/21/16	link	mostly true		27	620	2362.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284184664956697		9/21/16	link	mostly true		5	37	352.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284251748283322		9/21/16	link	mostly true		734	2447	3992.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284270141614816		9/21/16	link	mostly true		36	283	952.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284280401613790		9/21/16	link	mostly true		615	2711	7042.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284309848277512		9/21/16	link	mostly true		9	79	462.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284337051608125		9/21/16	link	mostly true		57	326	2472.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284361938272303		9/21/16	link	mostly true		153	505	4152.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284384514936712		9/21/16	link	mostly true		91	661	2902.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284409618267535		9/21/16	link	mostly true		53	211	1912.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284425191599311		9/21/16	link	mostly true		6	136	1052.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284435091598321		9/21/16	link	mostly true		43	352	2712.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284469454928218		9/21/16	link	mostly true		15	85	602.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284470298261467		9/21/16	link	mostly true		67	525	3862.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284502774924886		9/21/16	link	no factual content		79	608	12552.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284507951591035		9/21/16	link	mostly true		52	220	2002.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284516668256830		9/21/16	link	mostly true		206	1860	6562.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284521911589639		9/21/16	link	mostly true		11	83	372.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284539884921175		9/21/16	link	mostly true		100	397	2692.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284556298252867		9/21/16	link	mostly true		33	273	2032.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284571788251318		9/21/16	link	mostly true		35	463	2432.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284598968248600		9/21/16	link	mostly true		187	2369	4772.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284618111580019		9/21/16	link	mostly true		75	819	7602.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284636768244820		9/21/16	link	mostly true		21	464	1882.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284667821575048		9/21/16	link	mostly true		9	46	342.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284694994905664		9/21/16	link	mostly true		127	167	812.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284720001569830		9/21/16	link	mostly true		79	604	2562.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284738988234598		9/21/16	link	mostly true		8	51	362.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284761268232370		9/21/16	link	mostly true		217	2790	3492.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284770391564791		9/21/16	link	mostly true		537	1723	4402.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284779834897180		9/21/16	link	mostly true		152	431	2762.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284795924895571		9/21/16	link	mostly true		53	299	2622.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284802821561548		9/21/16	link	mostly true		18	100	1222.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284813001560530		9/21/16	link	mostly true		87	459	1322.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284828394892324		9/21/16	link	mostly true		209	2033	5002.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284839921557838		9/21/16	link	mostly true		279	2409	5372.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284860918222405		9/21/16	link	mostly true		21	307	2182.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284875161554314		9/21/16	link	mostly true		31	377	1032.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284896004885563		9/21/16	link	mostly true		27	177	982.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284917638216733		9/21/16	link	mostly true		13	57	452.19E+14	1.28E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1284958608212636		9/22/16	link	mostly true		26	66	802.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285012294873934		9/22/16	link	mostly true		29	171	722.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285066028201894		9/22/16	link	mostly true		16	73	622.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285114678197029		9/22/16	link	mostly true		128	392	962.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285166408191856		9/22/16	link	mostly true		38	171	722.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285188088189688		9/22/16	link	mostly true		39	143	1032.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285209071520923		9/22/16	link	mostly true		8	529	1962.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285224471519383		9/22/16	link	mostly true		315	1499	3612.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285250141516816		9/22/16	link	mostly true		10	77	642.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285274428181054		9/22/16	link	mostly true	yes	110	513	1912.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285283804846783		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	45	302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285299968178500		9/22/16	link	mostly true		11	140	1502.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285323381509492		9/22/16	link	mostly true		136	685	2082.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285327341509096		9/22/16	link	mostly true		25	121	1112.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285330201508810		9/22/16	link	mostly true		619	3588	1872.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285330611508769		9/22/16	link	mostly true		55	353	1712.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285349598173537		9/22/16	link	mostly true		20	181	1822.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285357341506096		9/22/16	link	mostly true		133	802	5412.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285360621505768		9/22/16	link	mostly true		27	426	1082.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285386531503177		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	48	882.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285415944833569		9/22/16	link	mostly true		99	413	1942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285466798161817		9/22/16	link	mostly true		23	80	1102.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285516921490138		9/22/16	link	mostly true		14	111	1742.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285544454820718		9/22/16	link	mostly true		129	764	4032.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285567801485050		9/22/16	link	mostly true		14	136	592.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285589471482883		9/22/16	link	mostly true		26	152	2032.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285631884811975		9/22/16	link	mostly true		25	231	1782.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285657511476079		9/22/16	link	mostly true		17	98	1602.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285681728140324		9/22/16	link	mostly true		24	286	1772.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285705561471274		9/22/16	link	mostly true		218	1016	4112.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285711234804040		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	41	182.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285725348135962		9/22/16	link	mostly true		17	100	742.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285727238135773		9/22/16	link	mostly true		25	206	1032.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285738474801316		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	52	652.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285748874800276		9/22/16	link	mostly true		109	564	3962.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285756448132852		9/22/16	link	mostly true		24	238	882.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285776904797473		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	123	822.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285791588129338		9/22/16	link	mostly true		15	77	592.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285799771461853		9/22/16	link	mostly true		32	87	512.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285805834794580		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	50	552.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285818561459974		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	452	3722.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285829131458917		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	56	592.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285843474790816		9/22/16	link	mostly true		19	219	1442.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285851221456708		9/22/16	link	mostly true		215	558	2502.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285864978121999		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	237	1602.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285877644787399		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	50	212.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285887041453126		9/22/16	link	mostly true		88	799	3442.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285912444783919		9/22/16	link	mostly true		79	985	4302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285944301447400		9/22/16	link	mostly true		107	700	1942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285962054778958		9/22/16	link	mostly true		13	114	1942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285963444778819		9/22/16	link	mostly true		56	371	2002.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1285982404776923		9/22/16	link	mostly true		12	82	532.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286001041441726		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1447	2251	11832.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286033694771794		9/22/16	link	mostly true		19	93	482.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286065878101909		9/22/16	link	mostly true		65	225	1682.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286155644759599		9/23/16	link	mostly true		25	200	922.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286256064749557		9/23/16	link	mostly true		53	268	832.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286315071410323		9/23/16	text	mostly true		4	95	1032.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286345578073939		9/23/16	link	mostly true		12	75	442.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286352748073222		9/23/16	link	mostly true		309	2061	8612.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286387311403099		9/23/16	link	mostly true		267	3169	4512.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286397688068728		9/23/16	link	mostly true		57	205	892.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286423628066134		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5	83	812.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286469658061531		9/23/16	link	mostly true		14	197	1112.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286491048059392		9/23/16	link	mostly true		23	60	502.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286516418056855		9/23/16	link	mostly true		64	459	2792.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286541354721028		9/23/16	link	mostly true		53	520	1672.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286579191383911		9/23/16	link	mostly true		19	141	452.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286584094716754		9/23/16	link	mostly true		206	1879	4992.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286614571380373		9/23/16	link	mostly true		235	1614	2562.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286655954709568		9/23/16	link	mostly true		11	71	482.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286690614706102		9/23/16	link	mostly true		104	956	3532.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286720611369769		9/23/16	link	mostly true		14	178	1252.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286745671367263		9/23/16	link	mostly true		12	153	1062.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286756508032846		9/23/16	link	mostly true		15	250	1782.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286769711364859		9/23/16	link	mostly true		62	339	1372.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286778998030597		9/23/16	link	mostly true		46	162	1952.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286792788029218		9/23/16	link	mostly true		62	445	1822.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286794198029077		9/23/16	link	mostly true		186	904	6062.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286817908026706	"Source: US weighs 500 more troops for Iraq Barbara Starr-Profile-Image By Barbara Starr, CNN Pentagon Correspondent Updated 12:52 PM ET, Fri September 23, 2016 U.S. troops in Iraq U.S. troops in Iraq Story highlights The forces would help in the effort to retake Mosul from ISIS No final decision has been reached yet by the Pentagon Washington, D.C. (CNN)The Pentagon is considering a proposal that could send an additional 500 troops to Iraq to help Iraqi and Kurdish forces take Mosul from ISIS in the coming weeks, a US defense official told CNN.  The possibility of sending some number of additional forces has been reported for several weeks, including by CNN. The Wall Street Journal was the first to report the proposal centered around the possibility of up to 500 additional forces. No final decision has been made, the official said. If the proposal is approved, it is anticipated that would be the final wave of additional US forces for fighting ISIS, since Mosul remains the last major ISIS stronghold in Iraq, the official added. If the proposal is okayed, it will raise the ceiling on the number of US troops in Iraq from 4,647 to over 5,000. Several hundred additional troops move in and out of Iraq on temporary deployment orders. Currently, there are 4,470 there under the approved ceiling. The Pentagon is not precisely revealing what the troops might be called upon to do. Some number are expected to be military advisors and trainers for Iraqi and Kurdish forces, whiles others could be involved in logistics such as moving supplies and troops around the battlefield, the official said. Arizona Republican John McCain, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, criticized the move Thursday. ""Indeed, we read this morning of plans for yet another incremental increase of 500 troops in Iraq, one more step down the road of gradual escalation,"" he said."	9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		13	41	302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286826111359219		9/23/16	link	mostly true		90	728	2382.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286858434689320		9/23/16	link	mostly true		30	209	452.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286867958021701		9/23/16	link	mostly true		153	584	3312.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286875358020961		9/23/16	link	mostly true		10	92	682.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286887648019732		9/23/16	link	mostly true		21	188	2092.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286913761350454		9/23/16	link	mostly true		25	108	1562.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286927371349093		9/23/16	link	mostly true		83	198	1012.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286942584680905		9/23/16	link	mostly true		32	420	1932.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286952664679897		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2972	6980	54002.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286975518010945		9/23/16	link	mostly true		101	927	872.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1286999761341854		9/23/16	link	mostly true		497	3244	4372.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287021484673015		9/23/16	link	mostly true		31	129	572.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287046594670504		9/23/16	link	mostly true		68	231	612.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287065088001988		9/23/16	link	mostly true		23	215	702.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287120417996455		9/23/16	link	mostly true		36	273	1432.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287128154662348		9/23/16	link	mostly true		21	156	1812.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287146107993886		9/23/16	link	mostly true		79	435	4092.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287150634660100		9/23/16	link	mostly true		20	128	852.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287165347991962		9/23/16	link	mostly true		11	219	2152.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1287174404657723		9/23/16	link	mostly true		28	233	1222.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289461461095684		9/26/16	link	mostly true		9	71	652.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289529341088896		9/26/16	link	mostly true		31	140	582.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289580044417159		9/26/16	link	mostly true		20	46	332.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289642367744260		9/26/16	link	mostly true		31	137	912.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289686707739826		9/26/16	link	mostly true		18	79	882.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289701981071632		9/26/16	link	mostly true		100	357	1622.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289720047736492		9/26/16	link	mostly true		70	254	1642.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289795571062273		9/26/16	link	mostly true		216	344	1632.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289802424394921		9/26/16	link	mostly true		35	228	692.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289922197716277		9/26/16	link	mostly true		52	692	3552.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289960264379137		9/26/16	link	mostly true		19	101	302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1289984554376708		9/26/16	link	mostly true		115	256	1192.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290008221041008		9/26/16	link	mostly true		6	46	412.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290016974373466		9/26/16	link	mostly true		14	60	982.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290020131039817		9/26/16	link	mostly true		13	75	522.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290028187705678		9/26/16	link	mostly true		22	306	612.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290068017701695		9/26/16	link	mostly true		155	2083	2752.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290095714365592		9/26/16	link	mostly true		30	356	2182.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290117837696713		9/26/16	link	mostly true		16	126	342.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290163241025506		9/26/16	link	mostly true		22	162	1402.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290186997689797		9/26/16	link	mostly true		5	47	522.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290213121020518		9/26/16	link	mostly true		48	311	2562.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290246801017150		9/26/16	link	mostly true		20	61	1132.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290264077682089		9/26/16	link	mostly true		243	1156	3342.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290309281010902		9/26/16	link	mostly true		29	175	922.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290322367676260		9/26/16	link	mostly true		143	1013	4882.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290343094340854		9/26/16	link	mostly true		81	829	2632.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290363481005482		9/26/16	link	mostly true		291	2408	1852.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290392384335925		9/26/16	link	mostly true		22	135	702.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290422200999610		9/26/16	link	mostly true		17	80	532.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290463584328805		9/26/16	link	mostly true		24	409	942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290476714327492		9/26/16	link	mostly true		20	255	1652.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290542204320943		9/26/16	link	no factual content		16	194	1662.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290632657645231		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	41	410	3172.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290692497639247		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	24	230	1892.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290698444305319		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1218	2415	8152.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290725304302633		9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	45	211	1892.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290739880967842		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	388	1247	2832.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290750580966772		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	186	979	6342.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290760934299070		9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	61	670	3822.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290795930962237		9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	24	271	1282.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290804370961393		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	206	980	4002.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290814187627078		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1532	5976	13012.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290851084290055		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	222	2066	1892.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290868374288326		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	30	390	1962.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290898170952013		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	42	360	2082.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1290950317613465		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	82	565	1862.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291087167599780		9/27/16	link	mostly true		66	543	1632.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291111790930651		9/27/16	link	mostly true		822	5179	25432.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291209107587586		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	30	284	1222.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291262517582245		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	157	1402.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291269840914846	"Walter: 2016's undecided voters would rather cut off their arms 'than have this election' Jedd Rosche Profile By Jedd Rosche, CNN Updated 8:12 AM ET, Tue September 27, 2016  Story highlights Amy Walter said undecided voters are not a fan of either major candidate for president The Cook Political Report national editor also describes the dramatic shift among demographics Party People is a new podcast from CNN where a pair of conservative CNN contributors talk to influential voices about the future of conservatism and the Republican party.  (CNN)Cook Political Report national editor Amy Walter said undecided voters are different this election cycle because they're ""absolutely clued in"" with who the candidates of both major parties are -- and they still don't like what they see.  ""Normally what you see in those groups, people who are undecided, they're undecided because they really haven't been paid much attention,"" Walter told CNN's Party People podcast hosts Kevin Madden and Mary Katherine Ham in a recent conversation.  Walter, who also worked for former Democratic Rep. Marjorie Margolies Mezvinsky, said undecided voters sounded like children trying to avoid hopping into a cold pool. GOP policy guru: Trump can't 'fake his way through 90 minutes' ""Here, these undecided voters are absolutely clued-in and they're like that feeling we all had in school when you had to jump into the cold pool in first hour P.E., and you're like, 'I don't want to get in there, I don't want to jump in there! I know I'm going to have to get in.' So, they are undecided because they don't want to make a choice, not because they don't know about their choices,"" she said. Walter said for the first time that she can remember, she's having trouble trusting the data that's coming from the campaign trail, and that undecided voters are struggling to choose between the lesser of two evils. Voters say this is the ultimate 'lesser of two evils' election ""What I hear from these groups, is just this idea of like 'You know, I don't know if I trust Hillary Clinton,'"" she said. ""One woman said, 'I don't trust Hillary Clinton on terrorism' -- to sort of get to your point of instability in the world -- 'but Donald Trump is going to get us into World War III.' So, that's why people are like 'I'd rather cut my arm off than have this election, because that's what you're making me choose from.'"" Walter, who also previously worked for CNN, described how the political polarization between different demographic groups, in particular white voters and whether they have a college degree, can't be blamed entirely on Donald Trump. ""It has been a dramatic shift,"" Walter said. ""You can't blame that all on one candidate who had a great rally. This has been a steady movement that way."" To hear how Walter got her start in politics and more, listen to CNN's ""Party People,"" a new podcast where a pair of conservative CNN contributors talk to influential voices about the future of conservative politics and the Republican party."	9/27/16	link	no factual content		10	78	1412.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291342320907598	"As Trump and Clinton debate foreign policy, Syria barely gets a mention  By Clarissa Ward, CNN Updated 11:46 AM ET, Tue September 27, 2016 The first presidential debate in under 2 minutes Now Playing The first presidential... kelly conway new day CNN anchor, Conway spar over refusing election results ana navarro  Ana Navarro mocks Trump's use of Spanish in debate tim kaine new day Kaine: I'm confident the people will accept the results  Clinton: I can't deal with all Trump's conspiracies (L-R) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton shake hands prior to the start of the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.Now Playing The first presidential debate in under 2 minutes Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump debate during the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas, Wednesday, Oct. 19, 2016. (Mark Ralston/Pool via AP) A nasty final presidential debate in 90 seconds voter fraud panel 1  Watch tense CNN panel exchange over voter fraud claims kelly conway new day CNN anchor, Conway spar over refusing election results ana navarro  Ana Navarro mocks Trump's use of Spanish in debate tim kaine new day Kaine: I'm confident the people will accept the results  Clinton: I can't deal with all Trump's conspiracies (L-R) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton shake hands prior to the start of the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt. The first presidential debate in under 2 minutes Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump debate during the third presidential debate at UNLV in Las Vegas, Wednesday, Oct. 19, 2016. (Mark Ralston/Pool via AP) A nasty final presidential debate in 90 seconds voter fraud panel 1  Watch tense CNN panel exchange over voter fraud claims kelly conway new day CNN anchor, Conway spar over refusing election results (CNN)The circus of politics can often be a distraction from actual policy -- and last night's debate proved no exception when it came to the subject of foreign affairs.  The back and forth between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump was perhaps more instructive in terms of what was not mentioned -- Syria's civil war, for instance -- than what was discussed. To be fair, the debate was not intended to focus on international issues, which were basically a footnote in the ""securing America"" segment. But amid the exchanges about ISIS, Iran, NATO and nuclear proliferation, there were some brief glimpses of what the world might look like under a President Trump or a President Clinton. QUIZ: Are you more like Clinton or Trump? Fighting ISIS  For the most part, Trump focused on attacking Clinton's record -- ""she's got experience, but it's bad experience"" -- rather than on articulating his own foreign policy proposals. That was certainly true of the discussion on ISIS, which was mentioned 24 times during the foreign policy part of the debate. Clinton spoke of the need to ""intensify our air strikes against ISIS,"" ""support our Arab and Kurdish partners,"" and ""take out their leadership"" -- positions that don't differ much from President Barack Obama's current policies. MORE: CNN's Reality Check Team vets the claims  Trump repeatedly slammed Clinton and Obama for contributing to the rise of the terror group by pulling out of Iraq, but he offered no details of his own ""secret"" plan ""to knock the hell out of ISIS."" When Clinton taunted him about not having a plan, he retorted: ""You're telling the enemy everything you want to do ... No wonder you've been fighting ISIS your entire adult life."" (Fact check: ISIS only came into being in 2006 after splintering from al Qaeda in Iraq. Clinton was born in 1947.) Iran's nuclear deal  Iran: The biggest issue for the next US president? 00:47 Similarly, on Iran, Trump repeatedly attacked Clinton for striking ""one of the worst deals ever made by any country in history,"" arguing that Iran had been ""about to fall"" and was now poised to become a ""major power."" But he didn't offer many suggestions for how it should have been done differently, beyond suggesting that ""they should have included the fact that they do something with respect to North Korea. And they should have done something with respect to Yemen and all these other places."" MORE: 6 key takeaways from the first debate Support for NATO  If the debate didn't offer much new insight into Trump's foreign policy plans, his comments about America's allies and NATO certainly did. ""I want to help all of our allies, but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. We cannot be the policemen of the world. We cannot protect countries all over the world ... where they're not paying us what we need,"" Trump said. MORE: Trump, Clinton debate nukes, ISIS, hackers  Fact check: Was Russia behind the DNC cyberattacks? 01:27 It was a moment that will have sent shudders down the spines of America's international allies -- an isolationist vision that has many global leaders wary about a President Trump. Already under Obama, there is a perception that the US has retreated from taking an international leadership role, particularly in the Middle East. Clinton sought to provide some reassurance that she would be different, saying: ""we've got to work more closely with our allies"". But it remains to be seen how she would take on some of the toughest foreign policy questions -- namely, the civil war in Syria -- in a way that would be meaningfully different or more impactful than her predecessor. Perhaps the next debate will offer some more clues."	9/27/16	link	no factual content	yes	21	116	1492.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291375430904287		9/27/16	link	mostly true		4	49	482.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291404070901423		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	17	149	2202.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291428494232314		9/27/16	link	mostly true		8	95	472.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291455630896267	"How Hillary Clinton found her stride on gender Maeve Reston By Maeve Reston, CNN Updated 6:42 PM ET, Tue September 27, 2016 (L-R) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton shake hands prior to the start of the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC's Lester Holt. Loaded: 0%Progress: 0%0:01 Donald Trump speaking at the 1st Presidential Debate at Hofstra University, New York on September 26, 2016 Donald Trump: We have to bring back law and order clinton trump debate reality check stop frisk foreman_00002004.jpg Debate reality check: Does 'stop and frisk' stop crime?  Hillary Clinton: Donald Trump says crazy things clinton trump debate hofstra temperament bts_00004205.jpg Trump and Clinton battle over presidential temperament Donald Trump speaking at the 1st Presidential Debate at Hofstra University, New York on September 26, 2016 Trump: I was against Iraq War, ask Sean Hannity  Trump: Emails weren't a mistake, you did it purposely  Donald Trump defends tax cuts for the wealthy HEMPSTEAD, NY - SEPTEMBER 26:  Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump stands at his podium during the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Trump: I'll release taxes if Clinton releases emails (L-R) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton shake hands prior to the start of the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.Now Playing The first presidential debate in under 2 minutes  Trump: I'm 'smart' for paying no taxes  Clinton: Trump called women pigs, slobs and dogs  Trump: Clinton doesn't have the stamina to be president HEMPSTEAD, NY - SEPTEMBER 26:  Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton speaks during the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Clinton slams 'trumped up, trickle down' economics donald trump post debate interview bash taxes birther response_00000707.jpg Trump speaks out on taxes, birther movement  Trump repeatedly interrupts Clinton Donald Trump speaking at the 1st Presidential Debate at Hofstra University, New York on September 26, 2016 Donald Trump: We have to bring back law and order clinton trump debate reality check stop frisk foreman_00002004.jpg Debate reality check: Does 'stop and frisk' stop crime?  Hillary Clinton: Donald Trump says crazy things clinton trump debate hofstra temperament bts_00004205.jpg Trump and Clinton battle over presidential temperament Donald Trump speaking at the 1st Presidential Debate at Hofstra University, New York on September 26, 2016 Trump: I was against Iraq War, ask Sean Hannity  Trump: Emails weren't a mistake, you did it purposely  Donald Trump defends tax cuts for the wealthy HEMPSTEAD, NY - SEPTEMBER 26:  Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump stands at his podium during the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Trump: I'll release taxes if Clinton releases emails (L-R) Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton shake hands prior to the start of the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt. The first presidential debate in under 2 minutes  Trump: I'm 'smart' for paying no taxes  Clinton: Trump called women pigs, slobs and dogs  Trump: Clinton doesn't have the stamina to be president HEMPSTEAD, NY - SEPTEMBER 26:  Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton speaks during the Presidential Debate at Hofstra University on September 26, 2016 in Hempstead, New York.  The first of four debates for the 2016 Election, three Presidential and one Vice Presidential, is moderated by NBC&#39;s Lester Holt.  (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Clinton slams 'trumped up, trickle down' economics donald trump post debate interview bash taxes birther response_00000707.jpg Trump speaks out on taxes, birther movement  Trump repeatedly interrupts Clinton Donald Trump speaking at the 1st Presidential Debate at Hofstra University, New York on September 26, 2016 Donald Trump: We have to bring back law and order Story highlights Clinton has had troubles energizing female voters, especially Republican-leaning women She lured Trump into ill-advised digressions about the source of his wealth and whether he pays federal taxes New York (CNN)After 30 years in the spotlight, Hillary Clinton finally found the balance on gender that has bedeviled her throughout her career during the debate at Hofstra Monday night.  Demonstrate power, command of the issues and the ability to shred your opponent -- all while seeming (just) likeable enough. Monday night's faceoff with Donald Trump could have been heralded as another historic first for women. But Clinton made no mention of a glass ceiling. There was no self-congratulatory nod to the fact that she was the first female nominee of a major party to take that stage before as many as 100 million people. She wore red, a power color, but with a feminine cut that looked anything but severe. She was smooth and measured; flicking subtly to her gender with a quick mention of granddaughter Charlotte right off the top, but then didn't dwell on it.   She didn't lecture. She smiled (a lot) — even as he slid into his role of interrupter-in-chief. Before Monday night's debate, all the attention was on which Donald Trump would appear -- the restrained candidate or the flame-thrower of primary days. But it was the former secretary of state who pulled off the more fascinating performance -- taking command of the stage, dominating Trump on a wide array of issues, luring him into ill-advised digressions about the source of his wealth and whether he pays federal taxes. Trump complains about debate mic In an interesting strategic move, she waited until the very end of the debate to throw her sharpest dart by raising his past descriptions of women ""as pigs, slobs and dogs"" and his criticism of weight gain by 1996 Miss Universe Alicia Machado. Trump shook his head, demanding where she had gotten her information (it's on tape); but then didn't seem to have an effective response. Instead he wandered off into a digression about Rosie O'Donnell, the meanness of Clinton's ads, and the notion that he had planned to mention Bill Clinton's infidelities -- but was holding back the instinct to say ""something extremely rough to Hillary, to her family."" ""I said to myself, 'I can't do it. I just can't do it,' Trump said. And then the debate was over. One critical task for Clinton in the coming weeks is activating and energizing female voters, particularly moderate Republican and undecided women turned off by Trump. Her team clearly felt her light touch gender strategy -- provoking Trump but not complaining about her treatment -- worked Monday night. Her campaign chairman John Podesta told reporters before leaving New York that Trump's ""constant interruption of her probably was reminiscent of the way a lot of women feel about bullies in their lives. He added, ""I thought it was kind of unbecoming and he couldn't stop himself."" The campaign followed up with a gut-punching web video showing Trump's comments on Machado's weight and the nickname she said he adopted for the Latina contest winner: ""Miss Housekeeping."" Who is Alicia Machado?   Follow  Hillary Clinton _ @HillaryClinton Trump on Alicia, 1996: ""Miss Piggy.""  This morning: ""She gained a massive amount of weight...it was a real problem."" 6:57 AM - 27 Sep 2016   23,125 23,125 Retweets   33,243 33,243 likes In a gaggle with reporters en route to North Carolina, Clinton brushed off Trump's interruptions, taking a page from Carly Fiorina's playbook when Trump made comments during the GOP primary about her face. ""I think his demeanor, his temperament, his behavior on the stage could be seen by everybody,"" Clinton told reporters who had asked about his frequent interruptions. The strategy? Let women judge for themselves. Was she fearful of future mentions of Bill Clinton's infidelity? ""He can run his campaign however he chooses, and, you know, I will continue to talk about what I want to do for the American people,"" she replied. As the race has tightened in recent weeks, Trump's aides believe it is in part because they are making gains among suburban women, particularly in states like Colorado and Pennsylvania, who like Trump's childcare plan and his recent policy speeches. How Trump's performance affects that calculus remains to be seen. But he seemed to have walked into Clinton's trap on Fox & Friends Tuesday morning when he defended his comments about Machado's weight. Obama on debate: Trump lacks necessary &#39;preparation,&#39; &#39;temperament&#39; Obama on debate: Trump lacks necessary 'preparation,' 'temperament' ""I know that person, that person was a Miss Universe person, and she was the worst we ever had. The worst, the absolute worst,"" Trump said, later adding, ""She was the winner and you know, she gained a massive amount of weight and it was a real problem."" Clearly Trump isn't afraid to double down on his past comments about women, even when his advisers have tried to steer him toward more substantive policy issues. And Clinton is going to let that play out. "	9/27/16	link	no factual content		19	360	1862.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291481227560374		9/27/16	link	mostly true		271	1348	10042.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291498714225292		9/27/16	link	mostly true		9	81	402.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291509057557591		9/27/16	link	mostly true		17	49	582.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291521744222989		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	221	2002	6302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291553714219792		9/27/16	link	mostly true		23	197	1442.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291607187547778		9/27/16	link	mostly true		198	1891	2662.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291613334213830		9/27/16	link	mostly true		47	119	612.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291616904213473		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	39	318	2262.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291633917545105		9/27/16	link	mostly true		14	79	652.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291653507543146		9/27/16	link	mostly true		145	886	5392.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291653534209810		9/27/16	link	mostly true		88	717	572.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291661910875639		9/27/16	link	mostly true		77	235	1052.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291673040874526		9/27/16	link	mostly true		40	649	2942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291687550873075		9/27/16	link	mostly true		6	195	1552.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291698617538635		9/27/16	link	mostly true		24	311	1042.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291728794202284		9/27/16	link	mostly true		405	1911	13322.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291754160866414		9/27/16	link	mostly true		9	64	942.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291782614196902		9/27/16	link	mostly true		295	2703	4372.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291804520861378		9/27/16	link	mostly true		76	747	5662.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291827317525765		9/27/16	link	mostly true		269	2278	2242.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291874880854342		9/27/16	link	mostly true		43	452	3052.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291897180852112		9/27/16	link	mostly true		171	484	3202.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291911960850634		9/27/16	link	mostly true		174	1394	6262.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291926867515810		9/27/16	link	mostly true		30	285	2302.19E+14	1.29E+15	mainstream	CNN Politics	https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/posts/1291945020847328		9/27/16	link	mostly true		577	4284	6551.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551473135056199		9/19/16	link	mostly false		1966	1773	821.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551473381722841	"WATCH: HILLARY CLINTON WAS FOR CALLING IT A ‘BOMBING’ MOMENTS BEFORE SHE WAS AGAINST IT #CHELSEANYC 4.7K SHARES ShareTweetPlus The establishment and complicit media is already in full cover-up mode to save Hillary in the polls. Here is the full cover up as it has already begun. Hillary Clinton calling the explosions in Chelsea, New York a bombing and then directly after making that statements a press correspondent asked her how she felt about Donald Trump taking the stage and calling it a bombing. To which of course she made the statement “it’s wiser to wait” – watch and be disgusted with the complicit media and the democrat nominee for president of the United States not even remember what they said moments before. "	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		101	190	361.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551473548389491	"No Mercy for the Terrorists Gary ChambersSeptember 18, 20162 Facebook Comments 3 Disqus Comments 300 VIEWS   253 SHARES ShareTweetPlusPin terrorists islam war Terrorism seems to be producing more stupidity than fear, I keep hearing the word suspect or suspected every time a bomb goes off in America or when the words Allahu Akbar is screamed out when a mass shooting takes place.  I get to listen to a New York Mayor tell the nation that the bomb blast had no relation to the bomb blast in New Jersey on the same day. I guess the FBI could learn a lot from this Mayor.  A reporter on Fox News says the bomb  could have been a pressure cooker that someone put in the garbage can by mistake. The media will put on experts and have many opinions to tell all about something that needs no explanation except just one.  These Muslims are going to kill us unless we kill them first.  When law enforcement catches or kills one I could care less about his personal history that the media always uses to make a good story to tell. The only thing I care about is punishing him without the pleasure of giving him a life sentence in a prison where he gets to choose his food from a Muslim menu, free medical service, recreation facilities,  a TV to watch his friends terrorist activities all over the world and a Quran with a prayer rug.  Terrorists should be tried by law within thirty days after their capture and sentenced  in the same time frame. I am just a simple man and I would rather form my own opinion than letting the media doing it for me. After all, who wants to be stupid?"	9/19/16	link	no factual content		22	111	61.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551473871722792	"Presidential Temperament Bob CandySeptember 18, 20160 Facebook Comments 0 Disqus Comments 272 VIEWS   93 SHARES ShareTweetPlusPin Andrew Jackson Donald Trump is most criticized for his temperament to the point of many saying it disqualifies him from the office of president. Lets look at Trumps objectionable temperament and then see what it has to do with being president. Mark Mellman made these observations “…a crucial contrast on character is frankly much more powerful than when you make a contrast on policy.” This is why we are looking at character in the first place, so we do not look at failed policies. Dr. Frank said, “Most of my colleagues feel that he’s not crazy, and if he is crazy, he’s crazy like a fox,”.  Dan P. Adams,who analyzes character traits concluded not surprisingly, that Donald Trump has “sky-high extroversion combined with off-the-chart low agreeableness (the extent to which a person appears to be caring, loving, affectionate, polite, and kind). Anger may be the operative emotion behind Trump’s high extroversion as well as his low agreeableness. Anger can fuel malice, but it can also motivate social dominance, stoking a desire to win the adoration of others. Trump may be a more flexible and pragmatic decision maker, more like Bill Clinton than Bush. Decision makers who, like Nixon, who are dispositionally low on agreeableness might hold certain advantages when it comes to balancing competing interests or bargaining with adversaries.”  Many other presidents ranked high in these traits. Among them was Lyndon Johnson who scored the highest, followed closely by Teddy Roosevelt, Andrew Jackson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and Bill Clinton. Trump’s personality type is classified as a Promoter. Other non-presidents who fit this category are Ernest Hemingway, Eva Peron, Winston Churchill, Grace Slick, Madonna, George S. Patton, and Steve Jobs. “They are Bold and daring at heart, and ever-optimistic that things will go their way. Promoters will take tremendous risks to get what they want, and seem exhilarated by walking close to the edge of disaster. Because of this, they make the very best trouble-spot administrators and negotiators, and they can be outstanding entrepreneurs, able to swing deals and kick-start enterprises in a way no other type can.” says Dan Adams,  Take Andrew Jackson for example. His campaign centered on Jackson’s image as a man of the people battling aristocracy and corruption. Strong-willed and sharp-tempered, a fierce patriot and rabid partisan, Jackson was always controversial. He personalized disputes and demonized opponents. Yet behind Jackson’s towering rages often lay shrewd calculation of their political effects. Jackson’s quick temper was notorious. His audacity on behalf of the people earned him enemies who slandered him. Jackson was often in control of his rage, and used it (and his fearsome reputation) as a tool to get what he wanted in his public and private affairs. His opponents were terrified of his temper: Observers likened him to a volcano, and only the most intrepid or recklessly curious cared to see it erupt. He believed that the president is not just an executive but also a representative of all the people. He entered office determined to end government corruption and the nation’s financial difficulties caused, he thought, by the upper-class elite in government, business, and finance.(Taken from a variety of historical sources).  Rather than disqualifying Donald Trump, his temperament may make him the most qualified. Like Andrew Jackson, we may not like him, but if we are looking for a more flexible and pragmatic decision maker,who may hold certain advantages when it comes to balancing competing interests or bargaining with adversaries, someone who is bold and daring at heart, and ever-optimistic that things will go the right way for the American people, able to take tremendous risks to get what he wants, the very best trouble-spot administrator and negotiator, able to swing deals and kick-start the economy in a way no other can, then we might have to overlook the baggage that comes with Donald Trump.  "	9/19/16	link	no factual content		6	17	31.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551473965056116	"SHOCKING LA Times Poll Shows Trump Leading Big, Support Soaring Among Black Voters   POSTED BY: MATTHEW K. BURKE SEPTEMBER 18, 2016 1.4K SHARES ShareTweetPlus Donald Trump has just received what has to be his most positive poll of the general election season, showing the Republican nominee opening up a large lead over Hillary Clinton, while support among black voters is soaring to levels Democrats had not thought possible.  The new USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times “Daybreak” poll released on Sunday shows Trump with a commanding 6.7 percent lead over Clinton, 47.7 percent to 41.0 percent, an indication that Hillary’s collapsing after being forced to leave a 9/11 memorial early is taking its toll, along with the every changing explanations for the health scare from her campaign, which ranged from “overheated” to the flu, to pneumonia.  More impressive and yet worrisome for Democrats, and the reason the party, all Democrat Media Complex, and Hillary Clinton herself has been going full-force with the “birther equals racist” narrative, is Trump’s massive gains among black voters in the past week.  Trump now has over 20 percent support among black voters, up from only 3 percent just a week ago. Hillary Clinton has 70 percent, significantly lower than the number typically enjoyed by Democrat nominees.  Notable is that voters under the age of 35 previously were favored by sizable margins by Clinton, but now the bloviating billionaire and reality TV actor has an 8-point advantage. And among those with a high school education or less, Trump’s support has surged to a 21-point advantage, up from single digits only weeks ago.  The LA Times poll has before been favorable to Trump previously, showing the race tighter than most when Clinton was leading significantly. However, this poll, with Trump’s sizable lead and improving performance among black voters, has got to cause panic among Democrats and the Clinton campaign.  I thought several times last week that Democrats must be really worried about Trump going after black voters with the focus suddenly being on birtherism — an issue that hadn’t been talked about for several months that the media just recently brought back into the conversation. It’s likely that Clinton’s internal polling was also showing Trump’s surge among black voters even before the LA Times poll.  Look for the race card to be ramped up even further in the coming days."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		29	174	81.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474015056111		9/19/16	link	mostly true		38	114	141.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474061722773		9/19/16	link	mostly true		26	71	341.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474098389436		9/19/16	link	mostly true		21	38	41.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474158389430		9/19/16	link	mostly false		1507	1107	1471.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474225056090	"WATCH: Black Lives Matter Supporter Makes INSULTING Demand From Cops After He’s Robbed At Gunpoint…  Posted by Bob Amoroso 23.1K SHARES ShareTweetPlus screen-shot-2016-09-17-at-8-01-51-am  Scroll down for video  It’s often been said with some humor,that behind every conservative lies a liberal who was once mugged, and perhaps black activist Jerry Ford Jr. will become the latest robbery victim to join the ever-growing ranks.  This latest incident took place on the campus at the University of Houston when grad student Ford a ‘Black Lives Matter” member and group leader was robbed at gun point, as he was about to enter his apartment.  He describes walking by a young man apparently loitering next to his apartment complex, and thought nothing of it until he unlocked his door, and then the young thug sprung into action, pulling out a hand gun and demanding Ford’s wallet and cell phone, which of course Ford surrendered.  Ironically Ford is running for Texas State Representative, while also a vocal activist and head of Houston Chapter of “Black Lives Matter”, which of course promotes the de-funding of many police programs around the country.  And which of course made his comments after being robbed all the more ludicrous stating: “I hope they (the police), would take a bigger stance and put more security over here because you have a lot of people walking back and forth to class.”  Ford also added that because the housing is off campus, it isn’t patrolled by university police security, which he would like to see it changed for the protection of the students…it would seem that a conservative by any other name, is a liberal once mugged.  Then after this BLM ""activist"" actually had the nerve to actually ask for more protection from the police he comically had this to say about the thief, ""I would've gave him money,"" he said. ""I would've talked to him because the real crime is why is he in that position that he feels the need to come and hang out at a college campus and rob people of stuff they worked for.""  Right. Good idea Jerry. That will solve the problem.  Check out Ford's call for MORE police presence here:"	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		17	63	321.36E+14	5.51E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551474598389386	" HILLARY EXPOSED: HAVE YOU SEEN HOW SHE REALLY TREATS BLACK PEOPLE? KEELY SHARPSEPTEMBER 19, 2016 ShareTweetPlus As Hillary Clinton would have you think, she is an advocate for the black community. However, she is really more of a snake. She not only takes their voted for granted but she also belittles them. How? She believes that all the black Americans want is more things for free.  One young black American decided to take a stand against Hillary though, because she does not agree with her.  Watch below as Hillary blatantly disrespects this woman, simply because she questions Hillary’s motives.   Hillary warmly greeted the young woman, but her smile quickly faded when the woman brought up Clinton’s “super predator” remark as young black protesters have in the recent past.  The former First Lady pointed out that during the early stages of her campaign, she professed to believing that racial profiling is wrong. The Minnesota voter remained both unimpressed and undeterred in her quest to find out if the black community could count on Hillary Clinton to not flip-flop her belief system again if elected. Hillary was quick to say it is not true that she isn’t a friend to black Americans, and she directed the young woman to take a look at her history as a proffer of her commitment. “I don’t think that’s true. [I’ve looked] at your history and that’s not what happened,” the unidentified woman challenged again. “I will have a very comprehensive agenda to deal with a lot of the problems” was Hillary’s career politician, doublespeak non-answer.  Hillary, if you cannot defend yourself against an unscripted question from a young American, then what makes you think you can beat Donald Trump at an on stage debate?  For more, click here."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		201	224	401.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518175051695		9/19/16	link	mostly true		12	50	371.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518215051691	"Why is it “RACIST” to Question Someone’s Birth Certificate? 7 months ago Written by iPatriot 81 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail Go to www.iPatriot.com and Join the Citizen Journalist Revolution!  The Democrats are using an intimidation tactic which they are prone to use incessantly. If you question the veracity of a black president’s birth certificate you are racist. That is the outright claim of Lynn Sweet Washington Bureau Chief for the Chicago Sun-Times made on Fox News. Consider the slanted claim that if a president is black and his birth certificate is called into question the conclusion is you must be a racist. What is wrong with this obvious non-sequitur?  First of all, there is evidence the birth certificate presented was altered. This is discounted by the claims that whoever presented this must be racist. Secondly, the social security number presented of Barack Obama was issued in Connecticut where there is no record of him domiciling there. Third, the hospital that issued his birth certificate in Hawaii didn’t exist when it was “issued.” Fourth, an examination of the birth certificate produced several errors that could only be attributed to falsification. Has an unquestioned birth certificate ever been presented?  No, only a cry of racism when the request is made.  They can’t produce an original document and they then rely on the smear of “birther” and racism to substantiate that which they can produce no physical evidence of.  Sadly, Donald Trump has bowed to their…"	9/19/16	link	mostly false		138	212	801.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518255051687	"WATCH: Judge Jeanine ROCKS – She PUNISHES Liberal LOSER Rosie O’ Donnell Into OBLIVION!!!  Posted by Bob Amoroso 101.9K SHARES ShareTweetPlus screen-shot-2017-01-15-at-1-00-09-pm  Scroll down for video  Conservatives beating up on Rosie O’Donnell seems like an exercise in futility, in that Rosie I fear has gone over to the dark side, she’s lost all reasoning and by definition she perhaps “clinically” best fits the term “loony left.”  However Judge Jeanine isn’t one to let even a “clinically deranged” O’Donnell off the hook, as she once again stating in her opening monologue  …”And as for those Hollywood leftists in need of a lobotomy, like Rosie O’Donnell. They are straight up Communists!”  The good judge continued lambasting the portly comedian’s bizarre rant on Twitter saying “I fully support imposing “MARTIAL LAW” delaying the Inauguration, until Trump is “cleared” of all charges.”  Obviously the first question one should ask the delusional O’Donnell are “what charges?”  Moreover Rosie like another celebrity talking head Sally Fields should sign up for a basic civics course on American governance and American history and understand the principles that govern this Republic.  WATCH:    Judge Jeanine however  within this brief video clip actually attempted to educate hapless Rosie on what the ramifications of “MARTIAL LAW” actually entails, however call me crazy, I believe Rosie knows exactly what she’s saying, much like Cher threatening to blow her brains out, or Rosie going north into the Yukon…it’s all theater, all smoke and mirrors, it’s celebrities being celebrates actually talking to one another to see how outrageous they could be, like kids seeing how far the other could spit. We just happen to be watching.  "	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		264	290	101.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518305051682		9/19/16	link	mostly true		2	18	51.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518365051676		9/19/16	link	mostly true		6	31	01.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518398385006		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		18	32	121.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518465051666		9/19/16	link	mostly true		2828	1537	6121.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518525051660		9/19/16	link	mostly true		210	279	2781.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518585051654	"CNN on Hillary’s Email Crimes: “She Did NOT do ANYTHING Illegal” [VIDEO] 7 months ago Written by Philip Hodges 555 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail They don’t call CNN the Clinton News Network for nothing. They’re there to defend the presidential candidate at all costs and not let any inconvenient facts get in the way.  CNN host Chris Cuomo – the New York Governor’s little brother – got into a tense exchange with one of Donald Trump’s advisers Boris Epshteyn.  Cuomo argued that Trump should come clean with the birther issue, just as Hillary Clinton owned up to her private server issue. “With Hillary Clinton, she had to own the server thing,” Cuomo said. “It was wrong. We heard from all the people around her that it was wrong, she shouldn’t have done it, it was poorly thought out. It wasn’t enough. Why?”  Epshteyn responded that they’re not the same thing. “And Hillary Clinton — there’s no equivalency. Hillary Clinton did something illegal. She broke the law.” They continued:  Chris Cuomo: She did not do anything illegal.  Boris Epshteyn: Yes, she did.  Cuomo: James Comey’s a liar, too?  Epshteyn: He said she shouldn’t be prosecuted. He did say she acted carelessly, and as a lawyer, if you look at all the particulars of bringing that case, there was a case to bring. And he said so, too.  Cuomo: No, he didn’t. He said there’s no case that could be brought, there’s nothing prosecutable about it. He just said it in his report. He said it wasn’t a close call.  Never mind the fact that even the FBI Director himself stated that it is a “felony to mishandle classified information either intentionally or in a grossly negligent way, or a second statute making it a misdemeanor to knowingly remove classified information from appropriate systems or storage facilities.”  Isn’t that exactly what Hillary Clinton did? Comey even said that she was “extremely careless” – in other words, grossly negligent – in her handling of classified information. And everyone knows that she had some 13 different mobile devices in addition to her private home server, which had on it classified information.    The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		28	70	371.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518638384982		9/19/16	link	mostly true		54	178	1231.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551518988384947		9/19/16	link	mostly true		74	154	921.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551571785046334	"EXCLUSIVE: This is What $216 Million Bought These Clinton Foundation Donors 7 months ago  Written by eaglerising 855 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail From the Daily Caller News Foundation:  A total of 205 Clinton Foundation donors whose corporations and foundations collectively contributed $216 million since 2009, were awarded the most coveted invitations in the nation’s capital: prestigious seats at one or more White House State Dinners, according to a Daily Caller News Foundation investigation.  At least 15 of the Clinton Foundation’s corporate donors — representing $47 million in contributions — were able to win invitations to two or more official state dinners.  Significantly, the decision makers who authorized the special invitations were not at the White House at all, but were ensconced in the Department State’s Office of Protocol. The protocol office, chosen by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, are filled solely with long-time Clinton loyalists.  Despite the Democratic presidential nominee’s departure from the Department of State in 2013, all of the top officeholders in the protocol office throughout Obama’s two terms have been senior staffers who served in either former President Bill Clinton’s White House or in Hillary’s Senate and 2008 presidential campaigns.  Critics of the foundation worry Dennis Cheng — who served as Clinton’s protocol deputy chief and later went directly to the Clinton Foundation as its chief fundraiser — could have “walked away” with valuable donor lists compiled by the office.  After Cheng left the Department of State, he raised a record quarter billion dollars while at the foundation. He is now Hillary’s national fundraiser, leading her presidential bid to raise $2 billion. As a result, The Daily Beast once called him, “Hillary Clinton’s $2 billion money man.”  If Cheng shared confidential information with the foundation, he may have violated a special “Memorandum of Understanding” (MOU) signed by the foundation and the Obama transition team in November 2008. The MOU warned of avoiding “potential or actual conflict of interest.”  Cheng also could run afoul of a 18 USC 208, a federal statute that “prohibits an executive branch employee from participating personally and substantially in a particular Government matter that will affect his own financial interests,” including those of a prospective employer or a family member.  “How much of the mailing list and contact information Cheng got at Protocol, migrated over to the Clinton Foundation,” asked Charles Ortel a Wall Street investor and an outspoken critic of the Clinton Foundation.  “We don’t yet how much of this extraordinarily valuable contact information as it walked out the front door either in Dennis Cheng’s personal cell phone, or on a contact list that might have been emailed.” he said in an interview with TheDCNF.  Neither the foundation nor Hillary’s presidential campaign responded to inquiries about potential conflicts of interest surrounding Cheng.  Bill boasted in a Tuesday CNN interview that foundation donors never benefited from any Department of State action, asserting, “to the best of my knowledge, nobody ever got anything from the State Department because they supported the Clinton Foundation.”  Yet, official White House dinners are among the most glamorous and exclusive venues in Washington, D.C., and the competition to secure an invitation is fierce.  Guests not only can mingle with a head of state and their closest advisors, but they also offer privileged access to the president, top White House staff and many cabinet members.  Former U.S. Attorney Joseph DiGenova, who prosecuted corruption cases in Washington, D.C., told TheDCNF the White House dinners weren’t only benefits, but amounted to the “selling of access.”  “The obvious connection between donations and access to big, White House state dinners is very important,” he said in an interview with TheDCNF.  “It was clearly a reward to donors, something they got as a result of giving money to the Clinton Foundation,” he stated. DiGenova was U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and was appointed an Independent Counsel concerning the Clinton passport disclosure case.  “We are looking into Cheng’s relationship between the State Department and the foundation and the political donor class,” former U.S. Attorney Matthew Whitaker told TheDCNF. Whitaker is the executive director of the ethics watchdog group, the Foundation for Accountability & Civic Trust (FACT).  “Cheng is the person in the middle of this situation. He had substantial input as to who was invited, who got seated where,” he said.  “I would say Cheng’s a key figure — really a shadowy figure — in this whole thing,” Whitaker added.  “It’s very obvious to me that people were giving to the foundation, not only because they perceived they could get access to the State Department, but it now appears they were giving in order to get access to State Dinners at the White House,” he told TheDCNF.  FACT has been trying to obtain the email traffic between Cheng and the Clinton Foundation under the Freedom of Information Act. The group initially filed an FOIA request in February 2015, but Department of State officials are refusing to release any of the emails before the presidential election.  “They have been stonewalling us and not responsive and now they’re telling us that we probably won’t get it until mid-to-late November,” Whitaker said. He served as the US Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa from 2004-2009.  The protocol office has been stacked from the very beginning with Clinton veterans. When Cheng served as deputy chief of the protocol office, his boss was Chief Capricia Marshall who, at age 32, served as the White House social secretary for Hillary when Bill was president.  After Cheng left in 2011, his replacement was Natalie Jones, who was Hillary’s Mid-Atlantic finance director for her 2008 presidential bid. Jones was joined by Mark Walsh, Hillary’s LGBT “outreach director” from her 2008 campaign.  Peter Selfridge succeeded Marshall in June 2014 as the chief of protocol and is the current head of the office. He served in the scheduling and advance office at former President Bill Clinton’s White House.  One of the most revealing illustration of Cheng’s continuing contact with the the protocol office after he joined the Clinton Foundation is in email exchanges.  In a March 8, 2012 email from Marshall to Jones, Cheng and Hillary’s deputy chief of staff, Huma Abedin, the chief happily identifies foundation donors who were to attend the March 14, 2012 state dinner for British Prime Minister David Cameron.  “Invited to state dinner,” Marshall informed the group.  Two of those invited included Clinton Democratic fundraiser Gov. Terry McAuliffe, who gave between $100,000 to $250,000, and Fred Eychaner, who committed $25 million to the foundation.  “Nice,” replies Abedin.  Although the 2008 MOU explicitly sought to build a wall between the foundation and Clinton’s official business, Cheng felt it was appropriate to later invite Abedin to a Clinton Foundation dinner that included foreign nationals.  In a June 11, 2012 email, he urges Abedin to come to Little Rock for the dinner. “Attached is list of attendees for tomorrow night’s Clinton Foundation dinner,” he wrote Abedin.  Among those attending was Recep Ozkan, a Turkish national who donated between $500,000 to $1 million to the Clinton Foundation.  Ozkan was the liaison for Fethullah Gulen, a secretive Turkish cleric who allegedly was behind the failed July 15 coup attempt against the Turkish government of President Recep Erdogan.  Erdogan filed papers with the U.S. government seeking the extradition of Gulen, according to Tuesday reports.  Also attending the dinner was Victor Pinchuk, the Ukrainian tycoon who married the daughter of Ukrainian strongman Leonid Kuchma, who was considered a corrupt leader during his years in office.  The email was obtained by Citizens United, a conservative group, under the Freedom of Information Act.  One of the most notorious Clinton Foundation donors to attend a White House dinner was Rajat Gupta, a long-time personal friend of Bill’s who was convicted of insider trading. He served two years in a federal penitentiary.  Gupta was the first foreign-born managing director at McKinsey & Company and reportedly hired Chelsea Clinton for her first job. Without any experience, he paid her a six figure salary. Gupta attended the dinner for the Indian Prime Minister in 2009.  Ortel claims the pattern of awarding government perks to donors began in the 1990s during Bill’s first term at the White House.  At the time, Clinton and his aides rented out the Lincoln Bedroom to 66 campaign contributors and offered seats on Air Force One to 56 contributors.  “To see the pattern, you really have to go back to when they were in control of the White House, the first time and they clearly demonstrated the propensity to rent out the Lincoln bedroom, to sell seats on Air Force One,” Ortel told TheDCNF. “So this was an old game.”  Rep. Marsha Blackburn, the Tennessee Republican congresswoman who is vice-chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and leading a congressional investigation into the Clinton Foundation, told TheDCNF, “This is further evidence of the Clinton’s ‘Pay to Play’ mentality. The State Dinners provide incredible opportunities to meet our government’s highest ranking officials and Clinton Foundation donors were able to get special access simply because they stroked a check.”  “The quid pro quo is astonishing and it begs the question of whether the Clintons are beneath selling anything,” Blackburn charged.  In addition to the donations paid outright to the Clinton Foundation, a number of corporate donors also paid Bill and Hillary high six-figure speaking fees. Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’ chairman and CEO, attended one of the hottest state dinners — a January 19, 2011 White House State Dinner for former Chinese President Hu Jintao.  His company donated $1 to $5 million to the foundation, and its Goldman Philanthropy Fund gave an additional $250,000 to $500,000, according to the Clinton Foundation website.  But that wasn’t the only contributions to Bill and Hillary. The company also gave the couple $2.25 million for 12 speeches before Goldman Sachs venues.  Brian Moynihan, Bank of America’s CEO and chairman, attended the May 19, 2010 state dinner toasting Felipe Calderon, Mexico’s former president.  The Bank of America Foundation donated between $500,000 to $1 million to the Clinton Foundation, and the Bank of America Corporation contributed between $100,000 to $250,000.  But Bank of America also paid more than $1 million for four speeches to both Bill and Hillary.  The Clinton Foundation donors invited to more than one state dinner were: Honeywell, GE, Dreamworks, PepsiCo, Morgan Stanley, Coca Cola, Dow, Boeing, Intel, UPS, Comcast, IBM and the Blackstone Group. Microsoft and the Ford Foundation were invited to three state dinners.  J.T. Mastranadi, political director of the Citizens United, said his organization’s conclusion was, “regardless of where you happened to be employed at any given time – the Clinton State Department or the Clinton Foundation – the top priority was always donor maintenance.”  TheDCNF contacted the Clinton Foundation and Hillary’s presidential campaign about a wide range of questions regarding the state dinners and the foundation. Neither responded.  To see the full list of Clinton Foundation Donor attendees to all 12 White House State Dinners, click here.  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		182	114	141.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551599835043529	"ZOMBIE HILLARY Makes Bizarre Statement On Plane After NYC Bomb Explosion…#ZombieHillary [Video] By 100% FED Up -  Sep 18, 2016 8.0K SHARES ShareTweetPlus Hillary Clinton made a slurred speech on the NYC bombing last night and it’s like she was drunk or something. If you watch the video a couple of times, you’ll see she’s not focusing and appears to be swaying from side to side."	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		170	335	831.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551617598375086		9/19/16	link	mostly true		5	27	31.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551663495037163	"Presidential Debate Rules set by who? SEPTEMBER 18, 2016 ShareTweetPlusPin The debate rules commission seems to be putting their money where their mouth is, alright. Not every commissioner has contributed but Donald Trump has a net $0.00 donation record. This is the group that will set the rules for the Presidential debates. Hopefully, The Donald will have some input on this, but do not expect fair and equal treatment for him.  As Written By Brendan Derby for Lifezette:   Campaign contributions from ‘bipartisan’ debate commissioners given exclusively to Clinton.  The men and women who run the supposedly “nonpartisan” Commission on Presidential Debates have put their money where their mouths are — and it all has gone to Democrat Hillary Clinton.  The amount of money is small by the standards of a modern presidential campaign, but it is one-sided. A pair of Ph.D. candidates at Stanford University examined campaign finance reports and found that all of the $5,650 in contributions that commission members have made to presidential candidates during this election season have gone to Clinton.  Republican Donald Trump, who will meet Clinton in the first debate a week from Monday, received no donations from debate commission members. Green Party nominee Jill Stein and Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson, who both learned Friday that they will be shut out of the first debate, also received nothing.  Kevin Zeese, an adviser to the Stein campaign, told LifeZette the contributions are further evidence of a bipartisan conspiracy to rig the electoral system against third-party alternatives. And the fact that Clinton scooped up all of the contributions made by commission members this year fits with the fact that she has won support not only from her own party but many Establishment figures in the Republican Party, as well.  “Hillary Clinton has done a really good job of uniting the two parties,” he said. “It’s almost like ….  Full Story Here:  "	9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		58	75	181.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551679181702261		9/19/16	link	mostly true		218	493	941.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551692098367636		9/19/16	link	mostly true		36	48	31.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551705221699657	"HILLARY ON DISABLED CHILDREN During Easter Egg Hunt: “When are they going to get those f*****g ree-tards out of here?” By 100% FED Up -  Jun 20, 2016 345.6K SHARES ShareTweetPlus Dolly Kyle has written a scathing “tell all” book exposing the sickening hidden truth about Bill and Hillary Clinton. Hillary’s war on just about anyone who is beneath her, or who would dare to get in the way of her ascent to the White House. When will the media do their job and report the truth about this horrible opportunist?  Dolly Kyle – who was just 11 when she first crossed paths with Bill, dated him through high school and began sleeping with him once they graduated – published the claims about the Clinton couple’s racial epithets and politics in her new book, Hillary: The Other Woman, published by WND Books.  She writes of one occasion, when developmentally challenged children were having difficulty picking up the eggs at a traditional Easter egg hunt on the grounds of the governor’s mansion during Bill’s tenure in the Arkansas state house.  Reluctant hostess Hillary had enough.  ‘The frustrated Me-First Lady demanded, “When are they going to get those f*****g ree-tards out of here?”‘ Dolly writes.  When Hillary arrived in Arkansas, Dolly writes, she looked down her nose at what she viewed as ‘ignorant hillbillies’.  She was raised in a middle-class suburb in Illinois and considered herself above the southerners – unless she was campaigning in New York state where she declared herself to be a lifelong Yankees fan.  Hillary didn’t belong in Arkansas but here she was’.  In the governor’s mansion for eight years, Bill and Hillary were both getting tired of the routine and frustrations of the small Southern state and Bill opted out of running for reelection in 1990.  He was marking his time until he could make a move for the White House. Via: Daily Mail  "	9/19/16	link	mostly false		3304	1996	2201.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551721511698028		9/19/16	link	mostly true		40	205	191.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551750048361841		9/19/16	link	mostly true		14	35	91.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551763711693808	"WATCH: Trump Visits Little Haiti In Miami – ‘Reporters’ FLEE When Clintons Get EXPOSED! 4.0K SHARES ShareTweetPlus The Haitians in the audience have some newsworthy things to say about their experiences. Too bad The Media (D) didn’t stick around to hear it.  These people LOVED Trump. They cheered for him, he sat quietly as they told their stories.    It was an absolute love-in.  That would have chafed the media badly enough.  But the audience had something ELSE in common. Complaints against the Clintons, who — to hear these people tell it — once they got their money, were never seen again.  It turns out, they’re not very popular for their handling of Haiti.  The have evidence they want to see followed up on. Against the Clintons.  Does any of this sound familiar? Lots of the money sent to ‘Help” Haiti didn’t ever reach the poor people.  They claim it found its way back to Washington Lobbyists. And then to the White House.  Then there was how they claim Hillary screwed over the Poor People of Haiti. Haiti wanted to raise DAILY minimum wage from $3 to $5 a day. Hillary put an end to it.  When it was obvious that the audience was piling on Hillary, and had nothing but love for Trump?  There was no news there ‘worth reporting’… nothing to make Trump look silly, or racist, or hated.  So they left early.  The camera followed them out of the room, scurrying like the rats they are.  BUSTED!  Share if this is MORE proof that they should register as a Democrat Lobby Group."	9/19/16	link	mostly false		75	140	111.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551827528354093		9/20/16	link	mostly true		230	247	431.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551827641687415		9/20/16	link	mostly true		40	60	91.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551827691687410	"My Dream: Perspective of 9/11 From an Egyptian-born American 7 months ago Written by Mohamed Hamada ShareTweetPinEmail Scene number one – Cairo, Egypt:  I am packing my luggage. At last, I am fulfilling my dream. I am ready for a long journey to a developed country that respects science and scientists. I am ready to join the developed world.  Scene number two – New York, America:  I feel shaky. I am stepping on the American land for the first time. I am joyful.  I’m full of euphoria, and I am worried. It’s a new life. I’m looking for a happy future, but am still scared.  What if all of this is just a dream and is not really happening?  Scene number three – Louisville, Kentucky:  I am not dreaming – it’s really happening. I am in a class in America for the first time. I pinched myself to make sure I’m awake.  Scene number four – a couple of weeks since my arrival:  I’m having an awful nightmare. I’m walking out of the classroom to find all of the faculty, the staff, and the students standing in a line. At the front of the line, there is a small TV in the Secretary’s office. A major terrorist attack has occurred. I wish it’s not true, and that it’s just a bad dream. I am hoping to wake up. However, It was true, I was awake, it was really happening.  Scene number five – I take my spot in the line waiting and my heart is racing:  What if they were Muslims? Please God, don’t let them be Muslims. The news came, the truth was hard. They were Muslims and worse, the leader is Egyptian.  I am speechless. I covered my face with my hands from the shame and I tried to walk away. An American professor tapped on my back with sympathy.  An older American student whispered in my ear: “Take care of yourself. Some people might hurt you in blind retaliation.” I didn’t have a car then, and an American girl who I hardly knew offered to drive me home.  I came here to study and work in a developed country. Later, I realized that the biggest gain is living among civilized people.  Scene number six – many weeks later, I am in the airport:  I am being harassed in the airports by the security every time I try to fly. Every time, I am picked randomly for a body search. This time, after every kind of search was performed on me and I was about to step in the airplane with my carry-on bag, a security person told me: ”Sir, you can’t have this bag with you on the airplane.”  I screamed: ”I have the right to have a carry-on item!”  He repeated in a begging tone: “Please sir, you can’t have this bag with you.”  The worries and the fear in his eyes quelled my anger. I gave him the bag. I murmured: “What is some harassment? It’s a very small sacrifice compared to what was paid by those who lost their lives defending this country.”  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	no factual content		4	9	11.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551827815020731	"The Democratic Party: America’s Most Powerful Hate Group 7 months ago  Written by Dale Summitt 2.3K SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail On January 20, 1961, newly elected and duly sworn into office President John F. Kennedy, a Democrat, ended his memorable and stirring inaugural address with the words “asking for God’s help, here on Earth, God’s work, must truly be our own.” Despite his obvious moral failings in his private life, President Kennedy’s personal ambitions were transcended by his belief that his primary duty in public life was to love his country and to serve her people. That said, we also know he was a Democrat, and the last Democrat to serve as President, whose efforts as Chief Executive were meant to build up America, rather than to tear America apart.  Following the tragic assassination of President Kennedy on November 22, 1963, up to and including the present, there have been four more Presidents from the Democratic Party: Lyndon Johnson, (1963-69); Jimmie Carter (1977-81); Bill Clinton (1993-2001); and Barack Obama, (2009-?). Under their individual and collective brand of so-called leadership, the United States of America and her people have been steadily and systematically dismantled, fragmented, weakened, and mercilessly abused. During these past 50 years, thanks to the national Democrats and the left-wing allies in Congress, the White House and our Federal Court System, the national Democratic Party has become America’s largest and most powerful “hate group.”  Lyndon Johnson, also known as “LBJ” took America into the malicious morass of the Vietnam war, and into the abyss of the equally malicious lie known as the “Great Society,” spending hundreds of billions of dollars on a vast system of socialist welfare spending that perpetuated poverty, especially in our cities and our minority communities, in a deliberate move to weaken the poor and less advantaged into federal dependency. At the same time, we fought an undeclared war in Vietnam and Southeast Asia for a decade, resulting in more than 58,000 needless deaths in the U.S. Military, only to lose the war and witness the humiliation of reunification of North and South Vietnam into one Communist nation. LBJ partnered with another, degenerate member of the Kennedy clan, Ted Kennedy, to engineer passage in 1965 of new immigration laws that started the stampede of mass legal and illegal immigration that eventually evolved into the “open borders” mess that brings in terrorists, America-haters and uneducated millions who promptly entered the social welfare system immediately upon arrival.  James Earl “Jimmie” Carter, sat fecklessly in a cardigan sweater by the fireplace one January evening and told Americans that we were in a “malaise,” or more directly expressed, Americans were in a foul mood, anxious and frustrated by both an economy in shambles with high unemployment and high inflation, as well as a foreign policy that created the conditions to begin the awakening of long simmering but dormant radical Islam, with the takeover of the American Embassy and the “triumphant” return from French exile of the Ayatollah Khomeini to Iran and leadership in 1979. Carter sat in a cardigan sweater and blamed Americans for a mood of “malaise” that Carter created.  Jimmie Carter’s primary accomplishment in four years as President was the humiliation of America before the rest of the world, as well as his own place in history as having been humiliated personally in the eyes of the majority of Americans.  William Jefferson “Bill” Clinton began his Presidency on January 20, 1993 with his “gratuitous” attendance at the “Gay and Lesbian Inaugural Ball” in Washington, beginning on day one of his Presidency to repay the support in his election campaign of the LBGT Lobby. Soon after, Clinton announced the rueful break with two centuries of military tradition and law by instituting the infamous “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy permitting Gays to serve without fear of discharge. He put “Hillary the Horrible” Clinton in charge of an ill-fated attempt to ram socialized medicine down the throats of the American people, and Bill Clinton, with the successful enactment of the North American Free Trade Agreement or “NAFTA”, accelerated to “warp speed” the exodus of  American businesses, jobs, and wealth to foreign nations such as Mexico, that had begun in the 1970s. Later in his Presidency his womanizing caught up with him and, after having one or more sexual affairs in the White House, was impeached by Congress, not for womanizing but for proceeding to lie to Congress and lie to the entire nation by denying the sexual immoralities.  Three previous Democratic Presidents had succeeded in seriously damaging and weakening America, by the time the notorious Barack Hussein Obama was elected and sworn in as the 44th President on January 20, 2009. His eight years in office have included the most reckless borrowing and spending of any administration in history. Half our entire national debt ($10 Billion of the $20 Billion) was created in just the past eight years of Obama’s tenure. Yet Mr. Obama has absolutely nothing to show for all that reckless spending. The economy is in shambles, the infrastructure of highways, bridges, and public lands is crumbling, while the military forces and weaponry that must defend our nation is being systematically dismantled. Meanwhile tens of millions of Americans have been added to the already overwhelming financial burden in government through swollen welfare rolls, food stamps, forced early retirements, long term unemployment, and social security disability fraud. Mr. Obama, whose sworn duty along with Congress under the Constitution is to “promote the General Welfare, has instead promote the welfare of every small minority and special interest groups imaginable, in response to their collective loud potty mouths, collective asinine demands, and their collective calls for elevation to privileged and special legal status of their immoral and degenerate agendas. Mr. Obama has used the “bully pulpit” leadership tradition begun by Teddy Roosevelt, not to uplift, inspire and unify, but instead to berate, lecture and divide Americans. To Barack Obama, “(radical) black lives matter”; “gay and lesbian lives matter”; “radical Muslim lives matter”; “illegal alien lives matter”; convicted criminals lives matter”; meanwhile, the lives of ordinary, law-abiding, responsible working Americans, do not matter; the lives of Christians, foreign and domestic, do not matter; the lives of American military servicemen and women do not matter; the lives of our veterans do not matter; the lives of the “thin blue line” of peace officers in our police and sheriff departments do not matter; and, with all certainty, the protections due to Americans under our Constitution and the Bill of Rights, in the mind of Mr. Obama, do not matter at all.  In the half century since the assassination of John F. Kennedy, under the Presidency of the four Democratic Presidents that followed, as well as the years of Democratic control of Congress, and Federal Courts, the national Democratic Party has deliberately and with malice aforethought trampled on the general welfare of the decent, hardworking and law abiding majority in America, while trampling on our rights and wastefully expending our tax dollars, to pay false homage to dozens of undeserving but vocal and demanding minority special interest groups, to the severe detriment of the much earned and deserving general welfare of the vast majority of our nation’s citizens.  The national Democratic Party has become nothing short of America’s most powerful “hate group.”  The American left wing, socialists and Democrats are the party that despises, attacks and works diligently and unceasingly to destroy all that is good within America. This “hate group” called the national Democratic Party demonizes: (1) law abiding morally upright American citizens; (2) unborn children; Christians; (3) Constitutional Conservatives; (4) legal gun owners; (5) job-producing energy businesses in oil, gas and coal production; (6) rural and small town America; (7) the ranching and farming West, including the “horse culture “ of wild mustangs and ranchers; (8) small business owners; (9) our police and our military, including veterans; and (10) above all, the Democratic party despises God, the Bible, Christianity and the ethical moral codes and common law inherent to Judeo-Christian foundations cited by the Founding Fathers 240 years ago.  Although the Judeo-Christian, moral and ethical, Constitutional Conservative American majority is clearly despised by the “hate group” called the Democratic Party, we the American majority do not hate, because Jesus Christ taught us that the greatest commandment of all is to love one another, and not to hate the sinner, but to instead only hate the sin. The vast majority of Americans should, and indeed do, hate sin. However, the Democratic Party clearly despises us. To paraphrase John F. Kennedy’s words from 1961; Americans who are Constitutional Conservatives, Christians and law abiding, ethical citizens must “help every friend, and oppose any foe.” We must love and support each other, but at the same time, we must band together and fight the Left Wing. We must fight the evil of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. We must fight the immorality of communism, fascism, radical LBGT groups, radical Islam, collectivist Socialism, radical Atheism, and every foe of our Constitution, Bill of Rights, and Ronald Reagan’s “Shining City on the Hill.” A famous aphorism states, “All that is required for evil to prevail is for good men and women to do nothing.” Above all, therefore, righteous, conservative and patriotic Americans must fight evil, so that the good may once again prevail in America in the historically prevailing form of “Liberty, Justice and Virtue.”  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	no factual content		1474	1176	401.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551827871687392	"Bombing Suspect Filed Anti-Muslim Discrimination Lawsuit Against Police 7 months ago  Written by eaglerising 28 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail From the Daily Caller News Foundation:  The man arrested Monday in connection with the New York City bombing sued his local police force over anti-Muslim discrimination claims.  Ahmad Khan Rahami filed the lawsuit against cops in Elizabeth, N.J., where he was residing before he planted bombs in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, at a train station in Elizabeth, and on the route of a 5k Marine charity run on the Jersey shore. He claimed police were persecuting him for being a Muslim and subjecting him and his family to “selective enforcement” based on Islam, reports The Daily Mail.  Rahami worked at a chicken restaurant called First American, owned by his family, who claimed the police tried to shut it down early each night with “baseless” tickets, and that locals said: “Muslims don’t belong here.” Rahami brought the suit along with his father Mohammad Sr. and his brother Mohammad.  He was arrested following a shootout with police Monday, after he was found passed out in the doorway of a New Jersey bar.  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	mostly false		40	42	131.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828408354005	"Cartoon: Hillary’s Basket of DISPOSABLES 7 months ago Written by A.F. Branco 76 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail Basket Case  Speaking of Hillary’s basket of deplorables, what about her basket of disposables in Benghazi?   See this and more of A.F. Branco’s political cartoons at Comically Incorrect  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	no factual content		82	61	11.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828481687331		9/20/16	link	mostly true		10126	4068	16411.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828545020658		9/20/16	link	no factual content		10	19	91.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828608353985	"U.S. Spends $5 TRILLION on War on Terror…Terrorism Increases by 6,500% 7 months ago Written by Philip Hodges 127 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail The government’s answer to every failed program or ineffective federal department is to dump more taxpayer money in it.  Ever since government education has become the norm, kids are dumb and dumber. But big government advocates claim that the problem is that they just don’t have enough money. So, they throw more money at it, and the problems only get bigger. Ever since the War on Drugs was declared, we’ve spent over $1.5 trillion, and drug use remains unchanged or even worse. But instead of questioning the policy or considering the Constitutionality of the issue, their answer is to throw more money at it, in hopes that they’ll finally stamp out illegal drug usage once and for all. But it only gets worse.  The same is true with the “War on Terror.” The U.S. government dumped $5 trillion into it, terrorism has increased by leaps and bounds. But instead of reevaluating our foreign policy – especially pertaining to the Middle East – the politicians’ answer is to expand our foreign policy, and of course, throw more money at it. And terrorism continues to grow. From Zero Hedge:  According to a report released by Dr. Neta Crawford, professor of political science at Brown University, spending by the United States Departments of Defense, State, Homeland Security, and Veteran Affairs since 9/11 is now close to $5 trillion USD. Before we have the chance to ask how a country that has racked up over $19.3 trillion USD in debt can spend $5 trillion USD on war, the focus of this article is to ask: What has all of this spending achieved?  As Reader Supported News reported at the end of last year, terrorism has increased 6,500 percent since 2002 (they probably should rename it “the war of terror”). In 2014, the outlet noted, it was reported that 74 percent of all terror-related casualties occurred in Iraq, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, or Syria. As stated by Paul Gottinger, a staff reporter for Reader Supported News, out of the aforementioned countries, “only Nigeria did not experience either U.S. air strikes or a military occupation in that year.”  Omitted from that assessment is the fact that the U.S. has been meddling in Nigeria for some time now. Why wouldn’t they? Until recently, Nigeria was Africa’s largest oil producer, as well as the continent’s largest economy until last month.  And look at this shocker from Ben Swann:  “Before the 2003 U.S. invasion, do you know how many suicide attacks there were in Iraq? None. In the country’s history there had never been one. But since the 2003 invasion, there have been 1,892.  “In Iraq, prior to the start of the Iraq war, there were reportedly just over 1.5 million Christians living in that country. And yet shortly after the war started, more than one million of them fled to Syria. That didn’t work out well. Today fewer than half a million Christians remain and yet are being exterminated by groups like ISIS.”  The more terrorism grows and is a threat to our national security, the more laws the U.S. government passes that not only continually erode away at our freedoms, but do nothing to protect us.  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		106	79	141.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828641687315		9/20/16	link	mostly true		104	95	651.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828675020645	"Clinton Foundation Spent 5.7% on Charity; Rest Went to “Salaries” and “Other Expenses” 7 months ago Written by Philip Hodges 14.1K SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail Back when the news first broke about the pay-to-play corruption involving then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation – where donors to the foundation were granted political access, including lavish White House State dinners – the Clinton campaign responded by focusing on all the supposed “good” that the foundation has done over the years.  I don’t think anyone was fooled into thinking that the Clinton Foundation was anything other than a money-making machine for the Clinton family and their well-connected friends. The foundation had to at least have the appearance of being a charity, so they had to divert some of their resources to causes. That way, they could always point to those grants as evidence that they’re an organization for good.  The Daily Caller reported that only 5.7 percent of the money they raked in went to actual charity:  Just 5.7 percent of the Clinton Foundation’s massive 2014 budget actually went to charitable grants, according to the tax-exempt organization’s IRS filings. The rest went to salaries and employee benefits, fundraising and “other expenses.”  The Clinton Foundation spent a hair under $91.3 million in 2014, the organization’s IRS filings show. But less than $5.2 million of that went to charitable grants.  That number pales in comparison to the $34.8 million the foundation spent on salaries, compensation and employee benefits.  Another $50.4 million was marked as “other expenses,” while the remaining almost $851K was marked as “professional fundraising expenses.”  Despite taking in an additional $30 million in 2014, the Clinton Foundation spent 40 percent less on charitable grants in 2014 than in 2013. Even as it slashed charitable spending, the foundation increased the amount spent on salaries, employee benefits and compensation by $5 million in 2014. The foundation also spent $5 million more “other expenses” in 2014.  Sometimes, things are exactly as they appear. This was nothing more than a way for the Clintons to make massive amounts of money. And Hillary used her position as Secretary of State to pull money from rich people in exchange for political favors.     The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/20/16	link	mostly false		2778	1063	1651.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551828781687301		9/20/16	link	mostly true		46	58	151.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551830951687084		9/20/16	link	no factual content		276	667	501.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845095019003		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		1878	2715	1371.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845175018995		9/20/16	link	mostly true		30	78	171.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845248352321		9/20/16	link	mostly true		47	107	871.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845355018977		9/20/16	link	mostly true		317	799	2211.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845415018971		9/20/16	link	mostly true		25	68	71.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845471685632		9/20/16	link	mostly true		234	1191	511.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551845505018962	"Video Of Hillary That’s Fast Gaining Traction On Web Might Blow Her Chances In Election  Posted by Bob Amoroso 8.7K SHARES ShareTweetPlus screen-shot-2016-09-17-at-9-14-01-am  Scroll down for video  There’s little doubt that this campaign season has been anything but civil, the issues of immigration, national security, terrorism and the economy have all taken a toll on America’s psyche, and whether we like it or not, we’ve all collectively witnessed our institutions slowly fall into disrepair by corruption, greed and malfeasance, by those individuals who have sworn under oath to defend and preserve those same institutions.  And while the political elites attempt to bring down Trump, they forget or attempt to distract the public, that they are the political class, and are directly responsible for America’s decline, and aside from the phony who currently resides at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, there’s another phony, in one Hillary Clinton, who has been a career politician for decades, and who now claims to be an outsider, regardless of the fact that she and Bill Clinton have amassed a huge fortune.  Perhaps this 3-minute video clip best illustrates how these two career politicians have used the system to enrich themselves by creating perhaps the largest criminal enterprise within American politics, known as the “Clinton Foundation” which promotes itself as a worldwide outreach charitable organization, while at the same time a financial slush fund for these two.  Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State, sold access to anyone and everyone with an open checkbook, while Bill used her influence to enrich himself with blotted speaking fees to those same countries donating vast sums of money to the foundation, by selling America down the drain to the highest bidder.    Do you think Hillary being involved in so many instances of lying and scandals should disqualify her as President?  Share this with family and friends and comment with your thoughts below if you think so."	9/20/16	link	no factual content		636	522	231.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551848248352021	"Deplorables Can Defeat Hillary Red1890September 19, 20161 Facebook Comments 0 Disqus Comments 438 VIEWS   1.8K SHARES ShareTweetPlusPin basket-of-deplorables If an October surprise doesn’t defeat Hillary, the deplorable  can. The deplorable and their friends and relatives can defeat Hillary. Anti-Hillary could be a large base, not just some Trump supporters. Here is the list of the deplorable:  1. Coal miners.  2. Pipeline workers. 3. New England commercial fisherman. 4 people who have lost their  jobs because of Obamacare, poor trade deals, minimum wage increases. 5. People who want a chance to defend themselves with guns, and don’t have the money for a security force. 6. Millennials who have debt but on job.  7.  People who have lost loved ones at the hands of illegals and refugees. 8. People in Colorado and Michigan who dealt with contaminated water because the EPA did not do their job.  9. Students who were hurt by the lowering of educational standards with No Child Left Behind and Common Core. 10. People of all religions that don’t want to see any form of Sharia Law. 11. People that can accept family planning but not  abortion. 12. People who have been convicted of crimes for a lot less then what  Hillary has done. 13. People being forced to go against their religious  convictions, in matters of items of private service. 14.Mistreated veterans.   15 People who still believe that the sun, the earths orbit, and volcanic activity still affect climate.  16.  ALL THE LIES CONNECTED WITH THE E-MAILS.  THE CLINTON FOUNDATION and HER HEALTH.  With all the destruction of evidence, peopple don’t know what harm is set up for the future"	9/20/16	link	no factual content		180	916	171.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551848401685339	"Our Propaganda Media Charles SmithSeptember 19, 20165 Facebook Comments 11 Disqus Comments 627 VIEWS   115 SHARES ShareTweetPlusPin 1395835_472667446184021_2025414351_n What is behind the News Media’s lack of coverage of recent terror attacks in our country?  I learned of the recent bombings and stabbings from the post I read on the internet. You would think that this would be covered extensively by all of the Major News Networks, wouldn’t you? Perhaps these attacks have been caused by a video.  I am sure Hillary Clinton would like you to believe that Donald Trump is personally responsible for the current bout of jihad in the USA. She has come awfully close to implying it. These attacks couldn’t be caused by Obama’s failed immigration policies Oh NO NO NO; the same policies that Hillary promises to administer full speed ahead.  Perhaps the Media is downplaying these tragedies in order to prevent a shadow of blame being cast on Crooked Hillary. CNN, MSN, CBS, ABC, NBC, and even FOX would never ever be used as a propaganda machine to prop up Crooked Hillary, would they? What kind of DEPLORABLE person could doubt the credibility of today’s American Media?  What happened to America?  The news I watch today is twisted into propaganda resembling the propaganda that was dished out to citizens of the Soviet Union; they tell us twisted versions of the news containing enough grain of truth to fool the sheep. Bold faced lies. Anyone with half a brain should see right through it.  Tags: crooked Hillary Donald Trump liberal media propaganda terror attacks The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author and are not not necessarily either shared or endorsed by iPatriot.com."	9/20/16	link	no factual content		16	22	21.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551848741685305	"The Criminality in Government Accounting Dale NethertonSeptember 18, 20160 Facebook Comments 0 Disqus Comments   50 SHARES ShareTweetPlusPin accounting There are severe penalties for lying in the courts and lying to Congress.  With this premium on truth you would think any government operation would necessarily be truth driven.  After witnessing the idiotic promises from candidates for public office you may begin to suspect that the honoring of truth is only for those who are not in government or who get caught.  The problem is the issue is far more grave than most people suspect even in their most dubious moods.  The issue I am talking about is in the field of government accounting.  Now we all know about the $600 hammers and the waste in superfluous studies that find the obvious and spend billions to do it.  But this accounting is small potatoes beside the larger issue of how the government manipulates the core index when trying to downplay the real rate of inflation.  Now just a word about the insidiousness of inflation and the consequences of allowing it to creep into full blown hyper-inflation.  Countries have turned from peace to war, democracies to dictatorships, semi-free to Fascist and completely collapsed because they were unable or unwilling to control inflation.  Check out the demise of major powers past and present and you will find an unsound currency is the one common factor that contributed to the collapse/demise.  And the soundness of the currency was always based on the government creating currency in volumes that had no backing except the promise to pay from further borrowing, taxation and currency expansion ( i.e the printing of paper money ).  With so much at stake you would think the government would want to know exactly what is the rate of inflation and how can it be kept under control.  After all how could anyone be so suicidal to hide the figures that would need to be reviewed and acted upon to perpetuate a country’s government?  As I spoke of in an earlier article, politicians are sacrificial both in what they seek and what they ask of their constituents.  This sacrificial banner becomes a shroud for themselves when the seek to deceive and ignore what they think they are getting away with because no one is naming the issue.  This is why they have earned so much distrust and disapproval.  Fro a complete understanding of the hideousness of the government’s attempt to distort and hide true inflation rates I refer you to an article written by Jim Puplava at http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/2005/0624.html .  What motivates the people on a committee to deliberately distort the way the government determines inflation rates so that the government can continue its deficit spending and ultimately bankrupting  the country?  It is the same motivation of the unrepentant cookie stealer.  They think they can get away with it.  And they can and they will if no one calls them to task and points out the dishonesty they are promoting.  In today’s world of politics it would require a ground swell of voters making enough noise and demanding accurate honest figures but most voters are ignorant of the practices and gullible regarding the truly evil motives at work in the bowels of the very organization that is charged with protecting the country.  The irony is the stupidity of those who think they are pulling the wool over the eyes of the populace. What they are hiding are the very facts and figures that will protect not only the country but their livelihood and their ultimate survival.  This is beyond stupid and certainly falls well within the category of criminality.  This in an organization that is charged with protecting the citizenry from criminals.  But what security is there in the fox guarding the hen house?  This issue is not covered on the financial channels on TV to any extent.  It is ignored by the press and all the talk radio pundits rarely question what is obvious to everyday Americans watching prices go through the roof.  When the issue is brought up, Americans are prone to trust the government to give accurate figures and believe the inflation rate, no matter how it is computed , is real and there is no need for concern.  As Ronald Reagan said, “ Trust but verify”.  There is no verification to be found that the figures being spouted are true.  The real figures are much higher and this means the government has less financial problems to worry about as long as they can push this scam down the populace’s throat.  The adjustments to Social Security are lower because of these bogus figures, the government debt is viewed as lower because of these figures, the weak dollar is the result of the real figures the government doesn’t want to face up to  and the cheap appearance of the coinage reflects the same phenomena.  Now that the American public is getting excited about a presidential race it is time to ask these pretentious candidates what they know about the “core index” that reflects the rate of inflation and what are they going to do to get the government to recognize it is deceiving the American public with its bogus rate of inflation to the detriment of the entire country.  There is not one candidate that has brought the issue up and there is not one who will have a satisfactory answer to why they haven’t.  If you believe the press has commentators that can ask hard questions you need to take a hard look at this very pressing issue and ask yourself why this has not even been raised.  The emperor of inflation is parading around naked as a jay bird and no one in the reporting business has even spotted him.  Not only is the government deceiving and manipulating the American public but the free press charged with finding the truth and reporting on it ,is ignoring the very essence of our survival as a nation.  There has been a concern with human cloning expressed by the U.N. and others, but the cloning from our universities has already occurred.  The clones are the genetic/intellectual equivalent of their instructors who dream of a fantasy modeled by Plato’s Utopia and care not one whit about the truth nor the means of attainment. As with the Soviet experiment, what they seek is oblivion. Faking reality doesn’t change reality , it only destroys the dishonest.  Facing reality requires a hard cold look not a placating syrupy soothing assurance that all is well and will turn out for the best if we’ll just be faithful , trusting and above all quiet.  The terrorists on 9/11 offered such assurances to the trusting passengers as they flew into oblivion.  We are passengers in the same predicament and like the passengers in Pennsylvania we need to “Roll” or perish for the ideals of the misguided, misinformed, dishonest pretending to work for the public good.  Tags: accounting government Inflation The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author and are not not necessarily either shared or endorsed by iPatriot.com."	9/20/16	link	no factual content		12	18	21.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551937741676405		9/20/16	link	mostly true		570	688	1221.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551954825008030		9/20/16	link	mostly true		42	85	71.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/551972521672927	"And if any of you modern day members of the secular humanist Sanhedrin don’t like this missive, well, God told me to tell you to “pound sand.” As Written By Allen B. West:  There are times when I just have to share the Sunday message I receive, and this is one of those times.  Often when I’m out and about with Christians, I get the “what can we do, it all seems so hopeless” line. And folks I gotta tell ya, noting upsets me more than to hear Christians talk about a situation being termed as hopeless.  Many believe there’s nothing that can be done against the progressive socialist and secular humanist left’s assault on religious freedoms and liberty. Case in point: look what’s happening in North Carolina because they have a law stating that you’ll use the bathrooms and facilities corresponding to the gender on your birth certificate. We know what’s happened to Christian bakers in Oregon, Christian florists in Seattle, Christian photographers in New Mexico — all because they honored their faith.  The state, meaning the progressive socialist ideological government, has declared that you can have your faith, your religious belief, but THEY will determine the level of your freedom.  As a matter of fact, ask the Little Sisters of the Poor how the government is determining how, where and when they can practice their religious beliefs. The government has decided religious beliefs are discriminatory, in their opinion. And any opposition to the opinion of the liberal progressive left, especially from Christians, is met with economic persecution, tyranny, terrorism — just ask the folks in Oregon and New Mexico — and look at the actions of the NCAA and ACC in North Carolina.  So, perhaps in the face of this onslaught, Christians are warranted in having a feeling of hopelessness. However, remember this simple fact from the 2012 presidential election: some 30 million Christians did not vote. Some were registered to vote and did not, others didn’t even register.  Therefore, if there’s a feeling of “hopelessness” it is by thine own hand!  Funny, have you ever asked yourself why all these black ministers embrace the progressive leftists who back in 2012 had to vote to put God back into their Democrat party platform — and booed?  Enter our Teaching Pastor Jonathan “JP” Podluka at Watermark who delivered a powerful message yesterday that must be shared. Pastor JP told us to share his sermon with one person — well, being the overachiever that I am, I am sharing with 2.4 million. JP took his message to us on Sunday from Acts 5:20-42.  It’s the story of how the early apostles, post-Pentecost, took to the streets of Jerusalem inspired by the Holy Spirit, to “speak to the people of the temple the whole message of this new Life.”  Now, of course the progressive socialist left of that day, the Sadducees, weren’t exactly happy about this. And so they conspired and had Peter, John, and others imprisoned for speaking God’s word. Well, an Angel of the Lord came and opened the prison door and released them…and they went right back to preaching in the court of the temple.  Now, the Sadducees were really torqued, so they called all the branches of the liberal progressive left together which formed the Sanhedrin. These cheeky fellas decided they needed to stop Peter and Company, and demanded they be brought back to stand inquisition.  Once again, they were told not to teach in “this name,” to wit Peter responded, Acts 5:29-32, (NIV) “We must obey God rather than human beings! The God of our ancestors raised Jesus from the dead—whom you killed by hanging him on a cross. God exalted him to his own right hand as Prince and Savior that he might bring Israel to repentance and forgive their sins. 32 We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.”  Now, you can imagine the anger of the Sanhedrin, the leftists, when faced with this bold, indignant, response from Peter. But, as they plotted to kill them, or unleash the IRS on them, instead they dismissed the Apostles and conversed among themselves. And there was one named Gamaliel who was a well respected member of the Sanhedrin — I actually think Chuck Schumer may be a descendant — who said something so very profound, Acts 5:38-39 (NIV), “Therefore, in the present case I advise you: Leave these men alone! Let them go! For if their purpose or activity is of human origin, it will fail. But if it is from God, you will not be able to stop these men; you will only find yourselves fighting against God.”  And so it was, the Apostles were freed — after the Sanhedrin leftists flogged them. Today they just denigrate, demean, disparage and condemn you as being in the “basket of deplorables.”  But the point is simple: this infantile movement was one of God, and it has not been stopped, and NEVER will. As stated in Isaiah 54:17 (NIV) “No weapon forged against you will prevail, and you will refute every tongue that accuses you. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and this is their vindication from me.”  JP articulated three points for us never to forget:  1. The body of Christ grows stronger in opposition…we thrive and expand, not wither and fade. 2. The Gospel of Christ will not be stopped…as long as we are strong and of good courage, Joshua 1:5-9. 3. The Gospel of Christ moves forward through YOU…God uses our suffering for sharing His word This is not a situation of “hopelessness” for Christians. Imagine what the early Church must have thought as members were being fed to the lions, burned at the stake, and suffered many other horrific trials, tribulations, and persecutions. Then as now, the message was this belief, this movement may exist but it must not be able to be shared, spread — but it has!  To my Christian brothers and sisters in America and all across the globe, I leave with this short video, which should embolden you and let you know that you are on the winning team…..      Full Story Here:  I have a PERSONAL message for Christian voters… – Allen B. West – AllenBWest.com"	9/20/16	link	no factual content		36	83	21.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552008985002614	"WATCH: Hillary Heckler Screams, ‘F-CK HILLARY’ And Stops Her COLD 8.1K SHARES ShareTweetPlus A key skill for ANY public speaker is the ability to handle a hostile audience. Hillary – sadly – does not appear to have learned this skill.  Watch as she waits for the audience to come to her rescue:    She’s not very good at this at all. She missed a really good chance at a humanizing laugh line.  Imagine the crowd response if she’d told the heckler to direct his comment to Bill?  Too late. The moment is gone.  Share if you think Hillary’s unfit to be President in EVERY possible way."	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		47	220	321.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552024685001044		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2828	1537	6121.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552041008332745	"HOW DID 858 ILLEGALS From TERROR “HOTBEDS” Get Full Citizenship When They Were Supposed To Be Deported? [Video] By 100% FED Up -  Sep 19, 2016 96.9K SHARES ShareTweetPlus The reason 858 were given full citizenship is because our director of the Department of Homeland Security is a treasonous radical left-wing open borders advocate who doesn’t give a damn about America’s homeland security.    Think about it…Jeh Johnson is responsible for this negligence and enabling of any and all “mistakes” big and small. He is the director of the DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY yet he’s a snake who continuously looks the other way while illegals from all over the globe cross our borders. Johnson famously said he felt that illegals were already American citizens:  The nation’s top immigration officer said that the “11 million” undocumented aliens in the United States are “not going away,” are “in effect” citizens, and added that deporting the few the administration wants out is unpleasant:  THIS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED TREASON! SKIP TO THE 25:00 MARK FOR HIS COMMENTS ON ILLEGALS:  Well, he just made 858 illegals from “hotbed” terror countries American citizens!   Hundreds of illegal immigrants from terrorist hotbeds who were supposed to have been deported were instead granted citizenship because Homeland Security didn’t have fingerprints on file to check their identity, the department’s inspector general said in a stunning new report Monday.  At least two of those approved are now being investigated by the FBI for links to terrorism, investigators said. But in most cases, Homeland Security and federal prosecutors have let the illegal immigrants-turned-citizens get away with their potential fraud. Charges were brought in just two of the more than 800 cases identified. One of the persons granted citizenship through the error-riddled process is now a law enforcement officer, and three others worked in security-sensitive fields — including two who worked in sensitive areas at airports. “USCIS granted U.S. citizenship to at least 858 individuals ordered deported or removed under another identity when, during the naturalization process, their digital fingerprint records were not in the DHS digital fingerprint repository,” the inspector general said.  The 858 cases involved people from so-called “special interest” countries, or from neighboring countries with major immigration fraud problems. Special interest countries are those places the government has identified as posing national security problems to the U.S.  WHAT’S EVEN MORE UNBELIEVABLE:  Investigators late last year identified another 953 cases that also seemed suspicious. The problem, according to the audit, is tens of thousands of illegal immigrants and criminal aliens whose files are so old that their fingerprints are still on paper cards. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that approves applications, wasn’t checking those paper-based files, so it didn’t know the aliens were ineligible or had been ordered kicked out of the country already. The inspector general said some fingerprints have been digitized, but it identified 148,000 aliens who have been ordered deported but whose fingerprints are not in the IDENT system the department uses for its fingerprint checks.  Read more: WT  "	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		2146	1436	3611.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552055944997918	"Chicago Environmentalist Scumbags by Kevin Jackson | Sep 19, 2016 1.1K SHARES ShareTweetPlus Leftists are in constant contradiction, like the Chicago environmentalist scumbags. No matter the issue, Leftists are for it, before they are against it. As long as the issues doesn’t impact Liberals personally, they remain content.  Leftist support the military, until they decide to make the military into baby-killers. Also, Leftist embrace law enforcement, until it’s time for them decry law enforcement.  Now we have another such issue as reported in the Washington Times.  The same Chicago environmentalists who blocked filmmaker George Lucas from building a museum last month are now welcoming the nearby Obama presidential library, sparking accusations of political hypocrisy. Juanita Irizarry, executive director of Friends of the Parks, said Friday that her group is “thrilled” to see Obama Presidential Center being built in a park on Chicago’s South Side. Just five weeks ago, the group forced Mr. Lucas to abandon his plans for a similar lakefront project about seven miles north of the proposed Obama site after a two-year legal battle.  So much for “white privilege,” huh George?! The Chicago environmentalist scumbags’ decision contradicts their own charter.  The Obama center  requires bulldozing trees and grass at Jackson Park. Meanwhile, the proposed Lucas museum would have been built on a parking lot used by Chicago Bears fans for tailgating. Let’s see; wrecking the environment for the black man’s library or razing a parking lot for the white guy. Every environmentalists dilemma?  Pretty much an environmental “no brainer,” unless you’re dealing with hypocrite Liberals, and crooked Chicago politics."	9/20/16	link	mostly false		32	66	421.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552071654996347	"Obama did right after the bomb hit NY SEPTEMBER 19, 2016 ShareTweetPlusPin As we head into the homestretch of this presidential election cycle, lets all of us deplorables make sure we don’t have another resident of the den of dummies to be our president. As Written By Allen B. West:  Saturday was the 229th anniversary of the signing of our Constitution. It was also a day when many across the country were focused on their favorite college football team — there were some awesome upsets.  But, it appears there were those whose focus was elsewhere. As you know by now, Saturday saw a rash of terror attacks. And yes, that’s what they were. We here at AllenBWest.com express our sincere regards and sympathies to every person wounded in these weekend incidents.  Of course, that’s not something our president, B. Hussein Obama could find in his heart to do.  On Sunday, Obama what he does best, and according to the Gateway Pundit,spoke at a high dollar fundraiser at the home of restaurateur Danny Meyer, owner of Shake Shack.  Pool reports from the event show no comment from Obama about the attack that was actually two pressure cooker bombs set four blocks apart. The second one failed to detonate and was taken for examination by authorities. There was also a similar bomb that exploded in New Jersey earlier Saturday that targeted a Marine Corps charity run without wounding anyone while in Minnesota a mass stabbing attack by a Somali Muslim that wounded nine was claimed by ISIS.  Obama did speak about Hillary Clinton’s troubled presidential campaign against Donald Trump blaming Rush Limbaugh, Fox News and sexism for Clinton’s flailing campaign.  Now, what parallel does anyone see here – the Boston Marathon perhaps? And the fact that once again a pressure cooker device was involved is the exact same tool of terrorism used by the Tsarnaev brothers in Boston.  We also know the terrorist magazine “Inspire” has provided instructions on how to create a pressure cooker bomb — and folks, pipe bombs are a form of IED, improvised explosive device. And the cellphone attachment is textbook jihadist IED template.  But, it’s not just what happened in New York and New Jersey. In Minnesota a jihadist dressed in a security uniform ran about at the Crossroads Mall in St. Cloud shouting “Allahu Akbar,” even asking a victim of his stabbing rage if he was Muslim. And if y’all haven’t been paying attention, St. Cloud is a hot bed of Islamic jihadist activity and recruiting, within the very isolated Somali community there. In the St. Cloud area, there have been nine terrorist-related convictions of Somali men. All of this happened on Constitution Day, when 37 Americans had the face of Islamic terror — yep, gonna say it — bring harm to them, and perhaps change their lives forever.  Now, the progressive socialist left will do as they do best and attack the messenger here. Their response is always about being thoughtful, nuanced, wise in waiting, cautious, and they always advocate to NEVER jumping to conclusions. I find that so very hypocritical as the left takes a different course of advance when an incident involves our police.  As a matter of fact, it was Barack Obama who stupidly asserted that the Cambridge PD had “acted stupidly.” He’s also the same person who, in the face of the San Bernardino and Orlando Islamic terror attacks, where 63 Americans were killed, rushed to conclusion promoting a solution of gun control. It’s the same Barack Obama who now wants to bring in hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States, all on our dime of course. And he seeks to do this as we witness the rise in attacks in Germany and across Europe from an enemy that has infiltrated the refugee flow — as they said they would.  However, the liberal progressive left doesn’t want to hear the truth or facts. They want to continue to live in their world of rainbows and unicorns. They want to continue down the path of obfuscation, denial and lying to us about the nature and ability of this enemy.  Donald Trump called it a bomb, the left went nuts – well what the heck do you call a device that when detonated goes “kaboom?” Investigations are based on trend analysis, and if you observe the trends here, there’s a simple deduction because we know the modus operandi — pressure cookers, cellphones. As well, there are those who will dismiss this saying the bombs weren’t placed in an area with heavy foot traffic and population movement — it wasn’t in Times Square. Sure, but perhaps this was a rehearsal for something far bigger…and it is an Islamic jihadist TTP (tactic, technique, and procedure) to lay out a complimentary IED with a primary one…why? The goal would be to detonate and inflict more damage on first responders and the crowd that gathers to see what happened.  What we need to garner from these events on Constitution Day 2016 is that the progressive socialist left doesn’t have the common sense to engage this enemy. They prefer to tell us all it was climate change that made the bomb go off. It was the weather that upset the Islamic jihadist in St. Cloud causing him to ask a person hisreligion and stab Americans while shouting a jihadist slogan. Obama, Clinton, Kerry, de Blasio, these are people incapable of doing that which is their primary responsibility: protecting us from harm and danger. They prefer to advocate for an ideological fight — climate change — and play a politically-correct game resulting in Americans being the targets of evil doers.  In the minds of people like Hillary Clinton what I’m writing casts me as an Islamophobe, and therefore a member of the basket of deplorables. I’d rather be in that basket, than in the den of dummies who cannot reconcile themselves to understand there is an enemy we must recognize and defeat.  Hat tip to the off duty St. Cloud police officer who shot and took down the jihadist at the Crossroads Mall. I just have to wonder if these idiots who’ve been taking a knee and spewing word vomit about “police brutality” will take the time to call this police officer and offer thanks? I doubt it, as they represent another group of fools occupying the den of dummies.  As we head into the homestretch of this presidential election cycle, lets all of us deplorables make sure we don’t have another resident of the den of dummies to be our president. We’ve suffered over these past …"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		31	91	41.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552093584994154	"DEAR CNN: The AP, In 2004, Said Your Boy Obama Was BORN In This Particular Country 14.2K SHARES ShareTweetPlus Well THAT’S Weird. If the Birther movement is racist… does that mean that the person who wrote this had it in for Obama?  What if that person is … Obama?  Breitbart put this out, taken from the AP, entitled ““Kenyan-born Obama all set for US Senate” That was June 2004.  Kenyan-born US Senate hopeful, Barrack Obama, appeared set to take over the Illinois Senate seat after his main rival, Jack Ryan, dropped out of the race on Friday night amid a furor over lurid sex club allegations. The allegations that horrified fellow Republicans and caused his once-promising candidacy to implode in four short days have given Obama a clear lead as Republicans struggled to fetch an alternative. As far as we know, Barack Obama never refuted this article. It’s still out there on the internet. Here’s a screen capture:  Here’s the bottom half of the same article with AP attribution.  And the link to the original.  That’s not actually as weird as the one all the way back in 1991.  That was Obama’s publicist. Here’s the quote:  Breitbart News has obtained a promotional booklet produced in 1991 by Barack Obama’s then-literary agency, Acton & Dystel, which touts Obama as “born in Kenya and raised in Indonesia and Hawaii.” The booklet, which was distributed to “business colleagues” in the publishing industry, includes a brief biography of Obama among the biographies of eighty-nine other authors represented by Acton & Dystel. It also promotes Obama’s anticipated first book, Journeys in Black and White–which Obama abandoned, later publishing Dreams from My Father instead. If Obama is contradicting himself, the only real question is, which lie do we write of as him cynically manipulating an audience for personal gain?  If his birth in America is valid — as we are led to believe? Why lie about it? Unless playing the ‘foreigner’ card gave him illegitimate access to preferential opportunities or tuition costs. In which case, he is a lying turd who cheated someone more deserving out of … whatever. A Harvard Education, possibly.  Because if That WASN’T a lie… then something else MUST be. That ‘something else’ being his American birth and Citizenship. Which are prerequisites to his presidency.  The quote can be read in context at Breitbart."	9/20/16	link	mostly false		559	534	311.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552130158323830		9/20/16	link	mostly true		54	178	1231.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552215951648584		9/21/16	link	mostly true		32	16	101.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216024981910	"Why are the Obama “Birther Claims” Making Headlines AGAIN? 7 months ago Written by iPatriot 11 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail In the past 3 or 4 days, the old Obama “Birther Claims” are again making headlines. This time is that candidate Donald Trump is attempting to close the door on it by saying that Barack Benito Milhous Hussein Obama (ht: Mark Levin) was born in the United States – period.  You know it – the claim that Obama was born in Kenya and therefore not eligible to be president – the claim that was first implicitly floated by the Hillary Clinton campaign in 2007 and 2008. Yes, that one.  It wasn’t Donald Trump who originally fired up the birther train. He just took it to ridiculous heights.  It was actually a political stunt by Hillary Clinton’s chief strategist Mark Penn who wrote in 2007: “His [Obama] roots to basic American values and culture are at best limited. I cannot imagine America electing a president during a time of war who is not at his center fundamentally American in his thinking and his values.”  Penn also suggested how the campaign might take advantage of this. “Every speech should contain the line that you [Hillary] were born in the middle of America to the middle class in the middle of the last century,” he advised Clinton. “And talk about the basic bargain as about [sic] the deeply American values you grew up with, learned as a child, and that drive you today.” He went on: “Let’s explicitly own ‘American’ in our programs, the speeches and the values. He doesn’t … Let’s add flag symbols to the backgrounds [of campaign events].”  So they’ve chosen the one straw man they can go to war against. A topic so utterly pointless at this time, the only question to be asked is – what is the point? Almost eight years into Obama’s reign and it’s being brought up again. There is no point, other than as a distraction – which is the point. Anything to get Clinton out of the…  Read the rest of the story at www.iPatriot.com  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		4	31	271.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216071648572		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		362	452	2601.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216138315232	"Free Trade Agreements: The Sacred Texts of Globalists 7 months ago Written by Mohamed Hamada 13 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail In the last 24 years, we have had both Republican and Democrat presidents. Republican and Democrat Congressmen and Senators differ on many things, but they agree that the market should be flooded with Chinese merchandise, that our American factories should close, and that American workers should be laid off. It is harder to find products that are made in America. When we go to a store, Chinese-made merchandise floods the aisles.  Wow, they are smart politicians. They did the thinking on behalf of the American public. They decided that this is how it should be.  It seems that American voters really don’t have a say. Elect whomever you want to elect. Let the conservatives and the liberals beat the heck out of each other, and let the voters cheer whomever they like.  What do they tell the voters about the trade policies that they sign? Why are these agreements kept locked up behind closed doors? Why is it that no one knows the details of these agreements until after the bills have been voted on and passed? Did they ask the voters if the trade agreements should be signed? Did they ask the voters if the agreements should be revoked or at least modified?  The Elite Businessmen have to make more money, even at the expense of American industry, and the free trade agreements are their sacred texts.  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/21/16	link	no factual content		12	12	21.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216184981894	"Recent Bombings Show Why Donald Trump Will WIN! 7 months ago  Written by Onan Coca 37 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail In 2004 President George W. Bush ran a hard-fought reelection campaign against a popular, if doofy, Democrat opponent John Kerry. For all of his faults, Kerry was far more well-liked and far less scandal plagued than today’s Democrat candidate. Bush was able to eke out a reelection victory mostly on the shoulders of his decisive reaction to the 9/11 tragedy.  In fact, the 2004 election made the phrase “security moms” famous, as the once known “soccer mom” had suddenly awakened to our dangerous new world where Islamic terrorism was the reality and her “mama bear” instincts had taken over. The “security mom” knew she had to do all she could to care for her loved ones, and that now meant using her vote to keep them safe.  Fast forward 12 years to the 2016 presidential election and the new generation of “security moms” will soon be playing a pivotal role (again) in another national election. The 2016 version of these security minded voters seem to be preparing to hand the presidency to GOP candidate Donald Trump, and the events of this past weekend explain why.  On Saturday morning a pipe bomb exploded just before the start of a 5k fun run in Seaside Park, New Jersey. The event was called off and authorities swept the area finding two more unexploded devices. Later that night, a pressure cooker bomb exploded in Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood, injuring 29 people and sending the city into a panic. Shortly after the explosion authorities swept the surrounding neighborhood and found another unexploded device a few blocks away.  Come Sunday morning, liberals and their friends in the media were busy condemning Donald Trump’s comments about the explosions being “bombs” and about the likelihood that we were witnessing a terrorist act. Trump’s opponents were practically hyperventilating about his “rash” response and his “haste” to judgment, all while arguing that there was “no evidence” of a connection to Islam or to terrorist organizations.  Then late Sunday evening authorities arrested five “persons of interest” around the same time that 5 more bombs were being discovered in an Elizabeth, New Jersey train station.  By early Monday morning police had captured Ahmad Khan Rahami, a naturalized American citizen of Afghani descent, who was living in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Rahami, it turns out, was a “known wolf” with ties to international Muslim terrorism. By the time the East Coast was waking up, liberals were beginning to realize that Donald Trump had been right all along…  Consider New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s comments on Sunday:  Absent a motivation, Mr. de Blasio suggested the word terrorism should not be used, shaking his head in disapproval at the notion that the basic facts of the bombing could be described that way.  “Here is what we know: It was intentional, it was a violent act, it was certainly a criminal act, it was a bombing — that’s what we know,” he said on Sunday, flanked by law enforcement officials at Police Headquarters in Lower Manhattan. “To understand there were any specific motivations, political motivations, any connection to an organization — that’s what we don’t know.”  The liberal reticence at calling terrorism terrorism never ceases to amaze me. It’s as though de Blasio believes that if you say the word terrorism you automatically mean that a Muslim person has carried out a violent act. Taking his own words – “It was intentional, it was a violent act, it was certainly a criminal act, it was a bombing…” this is the very definition of terrorism. It’s an act meant to incite a reaction. The only reason anyone would ever set off a bomb without some other concurring criminal act (like using a bomb to rob a bank), would be for terroristic purposes. Yet, de Blasio couldn’t bring himself to use the word and instead just described the act of terrorism to reporters. Even New York’s liberal Governor Andrew Cuomo (D-NY), who was slow to call the act terrorism on Saturday, had changed his tune by Sunday. “A bomb exploding in New York is obviously an act of terrorism. A bomb going off is generically a terrorist activity.”  But by Monday de Blasio’s tune finally changed.  “We have reason to believe this was an act of terror,” New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said.  A-duh. Here’s a newsflash, Bill… every other thinking person in America has already come to this conclusion. Thanks for joining us.  Meanwhile, while de Blasio was busy dissembling, Hillary Clinton was busy using the terrorism to attack Donald Trump for being to hard on terrorism. I kid you not. Clinton’s argument is that Donald Trump’s mean words are going to make the terrorists dislike us even more, so they’re going to do more terroristy things.  “I don’t want to speculate but here’s what we know about I think it is important for voters to hear this and weigh it in making their choice in November,” Clinton said. “We know that a lot of the rhetoric used by Donald Trump is being seized upon by terrorists.“   Follow  Zeke Miller _ @ZekeJMiller Clinton says Trump's rhetoric has ""given aid and comfort"" to terrorists. Phrase is definition of treason. 7:20 AM - 19 Sep 2016   138 138 Retweets   126 126 likes This is an amazing argument to make, considering that the Obama/Clinton foreign policy era has been one of appeasement and uber-careful rhetoric (when it comes to Islam) and yet, Islamic terrorism is worse today than ever before!  Ultimately, it won’t be the cavalcade of corruption, or the litany of scandals, or the lies, or her obviously failing health that ends Hillary Clinton’s hopes of being President. No, it will be the glaring differences between Clinton and Trump on dealing with the very real threat we face from Islamic terrorism. More Americans will decide that to continue the Obama/Clinton policy of appeasement and apology would be insanity, and that America would be safer handing the reins of leadership to Donald Trump. The liberal response to this weekend’s terrorism is why Donald Trump will be elected the next President of the United States, and it’s why the terrorist supporters at CAIR and the Muslim Brotherhood are so worried.  Reposted With Permission From Constitution.com   The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/21/16	link	no factual content		52	206	71.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216258315220		9/21/16	link	mostly true		56	86	511.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216328315213	"Hillary’s IT Guy Went to REDDIT to Ask How to Delete Emails! 7 months ago Written by Jeff Dunetz 91 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail Paul Combetta, is the tech guy who helped Hillary Clinton bleach her server clean of the evidence requested from federal authorities, seems to have gone to online forums to find advice on how to commit the evil deed. Last week Combetta pled the fifth when testifying before the house oversight committee last week, but wasn’t as tight-lipped when trying to find out information on how to strip Clinton’s e-mail address from already sent and archived emails from fellow IT experts on Reddit. In the end a fellow tech guy told him the only thing he could do is delete the emails  The evidence was first posted at 8chan, it consisted of Reddit posts from two years ago.  The thread was titled  “Here is clear proof that Hillary sought to destroy evidence,”   Here is the guy who wiped Hillary’s server asking about how to do it on Reddit. Yes. Seriously. He also asks how to replace real emails with fake ones.  His post happens right about the same time congress was requesting Clinton’s emails. He specifically said it was for a big name client who everybody would recognize.  A Reddit post has been found from Paul Combetta (the IT guy who got FBI immunity and deleted Hillary’s emails) proving they were covering up for Hillary.  First, notice Paul’s email address here:  https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Csrp9J6WEAAyubT.jpg  stonetear@gmail.com  He uses the same username on his Etsy page:  https://www.etsy.com/people/stonetear (Backup http://archive.is/P45cY )  Now look at the username of this Redditor asking how to strip the name of a “VERY VIP” from email archives…  Read the rest of the story at Jeff Dunetz’s blog The Lid  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com"	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		72	85	51.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216368315209	Cartoon: The Obama/Hillary Counter-Terrorism Policy 7 months ago Written by A.F. Branco 67 SHARES ShareTweetPinEmail Ready to Blow  The Obama/Hillary counter-terrorism policies are a ticking time bomb for the United States. Included in this is their immigration and refugee vetting policies.   See this and more of A.F. Branco’s political cartoons at Comically Incorrect  The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com	9/21/16	link	no factual content		82	67	61.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216391648540		9/21/16	link	mostly false		858	496	501.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216454981867		9/21/16	link	mostly true		56	273	3101.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216481648531		9/21/16	link	mostly false		186	164	511.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216551648524		9/21/16	link	mostly true		160	561	431.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552216604981852		9/21/16	link	mostly true		44	126	961.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242391645940		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		184	343	871.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242458312600		9/21/16	link	mostly true		40	134	451.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242491645930		9/21/16	link	no factual content		96	177	411.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242514979261		9/21/16	link	mostly true		96	123	161.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242558312590		9/21/16	link	mostly false		707	725	391.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242574979255		9/21/16	link	mostly true		134	425	171.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242684979244		9/21/16	link	mostly true		86	526	191.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552242808312565		9/21/16	link	no factual content		149	318	3371.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552310044972508		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		110	213	131.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552332521636927		9/21/16	link	no factual content		296	503	171.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552350594968453		9/21/16	link	mostly true		188	356	301.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552387401631439		9/21/16	link	mostly true		46	58	151.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552418711628308		9/21/16	link	mostly true		235	257	511.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552439798292866		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		98	124	261.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552451568291689		9/21/16	link	mostly false		509	512	1821.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552464218290424		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		39	114	211.36E+14	5.52E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552487701621409		9/21/16	link	mostly false		2778	1063	1651.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552502081619971		9/21/16	link	mostly false		225	326	321.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552571628279683		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		494	726	611.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552581868278659		9/22/16	link	mostly true		30	61	31.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552581958278650		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		92	108	411.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582058278640		9/22/16	link	no factual content		402	337	151.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582151611964		9/22/16	link	mostly true		52	62	161.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582248278621		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		3490	1991	4261.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582351611944		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		22840	5967	32981.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582414945271		9/22/16	link	mostly true		8	39	611.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582518278594		9/22/16	link	no factual content		32	14	31.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582591611920		9/22/16	link	mostly false		32	121	341.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582638278582		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		108	444	5231.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552582664945246		9/22/16	link	mostly true		92	226	431.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552599498276896		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2	21	141.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552599668276879		9/22/16	link	mostly true		4	30	131.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552599818276864		9/22/16	link	no factual content		417	1598	2881.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552599994943513		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		4	115	131.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600158276830		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		3657	3249	1431.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600221610157		9/22/16	link	mostly true		386	1128	631.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600354943477		9/22/16	link	mostly false		3021	1962	3461.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600451610134		9/22/16	link	mostly true		70	425	171.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600548276791		9/22/16	link	mostly false		481	677	1461.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600601610119		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		967	3367	2301.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552600674943445		9/22/16	link	mostly true		134	381	221.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552687818268064		9/22/16	link	mostly true		10	59	11.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552704678266378		9/22/16	link	mostly true		19	82	61.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552726238264222		9/22/16	link	mostly false		186	164	511.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552771738259672		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		243	513	741.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552791901590989		9/22/16	link	mostly true		13	59	71.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552807111589468		9/22/16	link	mostly true		32	62	41.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552825424920970		9/22/16	link	mostly true		52	111	141.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552850458251800		9/22/16	link	mostly true		858	496	501.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552889718247874		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1944	1425	3591.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552910314912481		9/22/16	link	mostly false		127	401	1141.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552973581572821		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		102	284	81.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552973681572811		9/23/16	link	mostly true		31	193	41.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552974104906102		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		31	96	91.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552974201572759		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		84	115	121.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552974251572754		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		69	230	31.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/552974311572748		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	12	11.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000128236833		9/23/16	link	mostly true		20	73	91.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000201570159		9/23/16	link	mostly true		116	455	181.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000281570151		9/23/16	link	mostly true		12	19	271.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000381570141		9/23/16	link	mostly true		42	60	351.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000474903465		9/23/16	link	no factual content		34	40	181.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000498236796		9/23/16	link	no factual content		6	2	31.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000541570125		9/23/16	link	no factual content		244	252	81.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000571570122		9/23/16	link	mostly true		240	221	961.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000608236785		9/23/16	link	mostly true		74	112	281.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000648236781		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		754	413	851.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000704903442		9/23/16	link	mostly true		18	109	851.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000744903438		9/23/16	link	mostly true		42	83	551.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553000804903432		9/23/16	link	mostly true		90	207	2121.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553010974902415		9/23/16	link	mostly true		65	156	511.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553010994902413		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		75	201	171.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553011548235691		9/23/16	link	mostly true		164	616	191.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553011611569018		9/23/16	link	mostly true		19	28	81.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553011714902341		9/23/16	link	mostly true		57	186	161.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553011734902339		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	21	21.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553089264894586		9/23/16	link	mostly true		868	1146	711.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553105428226303		9/23/16	link	no factual content		70	185	401.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553123894891123		9/23/16	link	mostly true		72	184	241.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553152771554902		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5	29	51.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553170554886457		9/23/16	link	mostly true		42	117	121.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553184751551704		9/23/16	link	mostly true		194	756	2271.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553200771550102		9/23/16	link	mostly true		92	226	431.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553212381548941		9/23/16	link	no factual content		461	423	351.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553244078212438		9/23/16	link	mostly true		8	35	141.36E+14	5.53E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553257914877721		9/23/16	link	no factual content		12	79	21.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592278177618		9/26/16	link	no factual content		40	38	61.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592314844281		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		28	72	201.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592361510943		9/26/16	link	mostly true		50	51	331.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592401510939		9/26/16	link	no factual content		4	27	61.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592491510930		9/26/16	link	mostly true		42	169	61.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592544844258		9/26/16	link	mostly true		36	84	341.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592604844252		9/26/16	link	mostly true		16	15	51.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592701510909		9/26/16	link	no factual content		4	29	51.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592784844234		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		362	192	351.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592831510896		9/26/16	link	mostly true		22	59	61.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592881510891		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		836	775	1291.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592928177553		9/26/16	link	mostly true		8	14	91.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/553592988177547		9/26/16	link	mostly true		472	452	551.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123384791174		9/26/16	link	mostly false		1639	1150	451.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123541457825		9/26/16	link	mostly true		166	513	31.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123694791143		9/26/16	link	no factual content		101	185	181.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123748124471		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		41	150	141.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123798124466		9/26/16	link	no factual content		15	57	11.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554123948124451		9/26/16	link	mostly true		5	18	51.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554125088124337		9/26/16	link	mostly true		30	74	51.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554126961457483		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2	27	11.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554127194790793		9/26/16	link	mostly true		5	30	21.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554127358124110		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		172	249	721.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554127454790767		9/26/16	link	mostly false		1178	3724	671.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554241688112677		9/26/16	link	mostly true		20	99	71.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554261528110693		9/26/16	link	mostly false		140	127	121.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554277404775772		9/26/16	link	mostly true		57	240	901.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554307944772718		9/26/16	link	mostly true		284	587	2751.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554325304770982		9/26/16	link	no factual content		650	1138	271.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554342468102599		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		3	53	71.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554360488100797		9/26/16	link	mostly true		23	46	161.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554371828099663		9/26/16	link	mostly true		50	96	91.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554402708096575		9/26/16	link	mostly true		64	154	81.36E+14	5.54E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554416098095236		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	126	467	291.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554502851419894		9/27/16	link	no factual content		50	113	181.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554502974753215		9/27/16	link	mostly false		22	18	51.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554503008086545		9/27/16	link	no factual content		32	236	141.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554503064753206		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2	23	31.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504311419748		9/27/16	link	mostly false		264	235	471.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504451419734		9/27/16	link	no factual content		4	11	01.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504534753059		9/27/16	link	mostly false		1456	1071	1161.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504641419715		9/27/16	link	mostly true		14	19	11.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504701419709		9/27/16	link	mostly true		12	51	731.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554504831419696		9/27/16	link	mostly true		108	162	51.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554505034753009		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1340	1270	1301.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554505101419669		9/27/16	link	mostly true		76	149	31.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554505178086328		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		308	435	5121.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554505344752978		9/27/16	link	mostly true		14	28	151.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554509488085897		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		474	1071	151.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554509564752556		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	2	44	311.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510524752460		9/27/16	link	mostly true		213	1404	671.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510678085778		9/27/16	link	mostly true		12	48	531.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510764752436		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2057	1681	1661.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510794752433		9/27/16	link	mostly true		175	563	321.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510844752428		9/27/16	link	mostly true		19	40	131.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554510938085752		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		11	40	71.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554597891410390		9/27/16	link	mostly true		15	26	61.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554612978075548		9/27/16	link	mostly true		100	173	101.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554629948073851		9/27/16	link	mostly true		76	149	31.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554657358071110		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	380	568	471.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554677078069138		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	225	527	1351.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554690588067787		9/27/16	link	no factual content		49	116	71.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554703414733171		9/27/16	link	mostly true		14	24	01.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554716558065190		9/27/16	link	mostly true		100	224	271.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554737894729723		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1340	1270	1301.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554769691393210		9/27/16	link	mostly true		16	53	161.36E+14	5.55E+14	right	Eagle Rising	https://www.facebook.com/theEagleisRising/posts/554779854725527		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		14	61	04.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1245655948829853		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1511	2281	1914.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1245657488829699		9/19/16	link	mostly false		572	1148	2044.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1245659788829469		9/19/16	link	mostly true		65	185	84.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1245660842162697		9/19/16	link	mostly true		947	1689	5354.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1245661855495929		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		2965	4607	37284.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246091905452924		9/19/16	link	mostly false		13305	9490	9324.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246147322114049		9/19/16	link	mostly true		728	3120	844.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246187652110016		9/19/16	link	no factual content		3442	6399	2424.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246192692109512		9/19/16	link	mostly true		3700	14954	25634.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246206985441416		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1860	9912	2994.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246207405441374		9/19/16	link	mostly false		4595	4899	2564.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246207908774657		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1203	1956	7154.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246209585441156		9/19/16	link	mostly true		246	2809	734.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246242658771182		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		95	259	164.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246441708751277		9/19/16	link	mostly true		197	655	1444.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246448645417250		9/19/16	link	mostly true		734	3052	914.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246475268747921		9/19/16	link	mostly false		54	109	394.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246491382079643		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		82	857	494.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246565388738909		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		981	6376	3844.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246567002072081		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1747	4987	7744.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246595435402571		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		51	170	244.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246596238735824		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		130	271	274.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246873882041393		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		71	180	584.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246874788707969		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2382	4632	8544.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246876025374512		9/20/16	link	mostly true		106	769	2944.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246879138707534		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1279	3339	4204.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1246879678707480		9/20/16	link	mostly false		3697	5811	2064.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247110935351021		9/20/16	link	mostly false		18054	17705	14874.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247112968684151		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		334	1303	554.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247115938683854		9/20/16	link	mostly true		182	781	2674.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247208265341288		9/20/16	link	mostly true		104	572	1664.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247315645330550		9/20/16	link	mostly false		2889	4174	9254.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247384335323681		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		6053	8949	56974.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247438335318281		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1791	4120	1374.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247476645314450		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		32	138	584.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247473121981469		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		137	265	374.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247478311980950		9/21/16	link	mostly true		3304	3561	14434.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247479088647539		9/21/16	link	mostly false		1474	2551	5384.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247794678615980		9/21/16	link	mostly true		319	929	844.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247833948612053		9/21/16	link	mostly false		192	578	1144.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1247930188602429		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1048	2905	3104.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248049121923869		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		1346	2245	8034.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248049411923840		9/21/16	link	mostly false		1581	2342	1014.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248070595255055		9/21/16	link	mostly true		4058	4494	4494.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248101115252003		9/21/16	link	mostly true		130	531	734.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248135508581897		9/21/16	link	mostly true		5138	4696	32374.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248162231912558		9/21/16	link	mostly true		502	934	1344.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248204025241712		9/21/16	link	mostly true		7234	21249	6924.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248211258574322		9/21/16	link	mostly false		143	525	1154.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248221448573303		9/21/16	link	mostly false		2492	3661	2444.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248260195236095		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		6271	16334	4804.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248280588567389		9/21/16	link	mostly true		93	316	1654.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248224501906331		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1121	6404	1294.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248227058572742		9/22/16	link	mostly false		2590	4088	3514.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248227375239377		9/22/16	link	mostly false		317	1011	3844.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248228565239258		9/22/16	link	mostly true		20	336	104.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248640028531445		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1760	5415	6184.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248719248523523		9/22/16	link	mostly false		1372	3258	31834.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248839651844816		9/22/16	link	mostly false		1147	2340	6964.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248900275172087		9/22/16	link	mostly true		304	1204	374.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248905528504895		9/22/16	link	mostly true		876	2476	1114.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248957208499727		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1136	1716	4414.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1248987098496738		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		215	988	674.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249041701824611		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		5817	5148	1864.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249057001823081		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		349	622	3114.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249061858489262		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		151	652	2014.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249121558483292		9/22/16	link	mostly false		1670	2359	8704.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249022148493233		9/23/16	link	mostly true		54	757	414.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249062208489227		9/23/16	link	mostly true		209	980	404.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249122865149828		9/23/16	text	mixture of true and false		3	47	74.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249124161816365		9/23/16	link	mostly false		3925	15781	2974.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249131348482313		9/23/16	link	mostly true		120	492	2144.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249132111815570		9/23/16	link	mostly false		1175	1568	2424.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249132908482157		9/23/16	link	no factual content		29	159	654.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249133618482086		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		295	854	1004.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249432448452203		9/23/16	link	mostly true		31	145	164.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249777878417660		9/23/16	link	mostly false		6535	14003	8254.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249886585073456		9/23/16	link	mostly false		14024	9536	22474.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249951931733588		9/23/16	link	mostly true		258	747	1444.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249978638397584		9/23/16	link	mostly true		40316	14677	8574.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1249981928397255		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2667	7915	2404.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1250009591727822		9/23/16	link	mostly true		215	1560	2524.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1251852554876859		9/26/16	link	mostly true		60	431	364.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1251854891543292		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1441	3309	8704.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1251856134876501		9/26/16	link	mostly true		922	2567	1114.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252400874822027		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1949	4525	3824.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252425721486209		9/26/16	link	mostly true		528	1072	254.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252426128152835		9/26/16	link	mostly false		1665	2311	1084.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252426544819460		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3559	5162	1474.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252568228138625		9/26/16	link	mostly true				4.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252607684801346		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		2403	2191	4694.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252637398131708		9/26/16	link	mostly true		11994	10501	43764.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252638934798221		9/26/16	link	mostly true		8646	8683	11334.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252745751454206		9/26/16	link	no factual content		6769	11670	2834.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252747661454015		9/26/16	link	mostly true		7278	6616	3854.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252748414787273		9/26/16	link	no factual content		608	2128	9724.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252765571452224		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	1397	4185	834.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252748814787233		9/27/16	link	mostly true		325	1245	654.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252756021453179		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1143	1434	5074.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252759804786134		9/27/16	link	mostly true		11754	10325	8634.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1252763278119120		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		367	624	804.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253280291400752		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		3725	2657	1804.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253393644722750		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		312	704	774.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253422501386531		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	591	1048	654.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253422688053179		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	908	2807	1544.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253478711380910		9/27/16	link	mostly false		267	1304	1144.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253505041378277		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	202	516	884.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253571211371660		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		732	1130	2354.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253626604699454		9/27/16	link	mostly true		611	1324	864.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253646368030811		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	3616	8807	3384.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253659874696127		9/27/16	link	mostly true		209	556	4354.40E+14	1.25E+15	right	Freedom Daily	https://www.facebook.com/FreedomDailyNews/posts/1253661748029273		9/27/16	link	mostly true		329	1203	4313.47E+14	1.24E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1244975748928810		9/19/16	link	mostly true		9144	13983	10523.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245576782202040		9/19/16	link	mostly true		447	3077	2933.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245619572197761		9/19/16	link	mostly true		17330	18248	25273.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245663435526708		9/19/16	link	mostly true		14207	33399	11923.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245723568854028		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		2007	8342	7203.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245754342184284		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		5207	10719	36953.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245766898849695		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		33482	19552	17413.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245799002179818		9/19/16	link	mostly true		3812	11005	5233.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245867855506266		9/19/16	link	mostly true		2460	4723	8253.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245884872171231		9/19/16	link	mostly true		7338	13357	5613.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1245903222169396		9/19/16	link	mostly true		3910	6502	13393.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246059202153798	"Trump Says He Supports Slashing Social Security From A ‘Moral Standpoint’ By Andrew Bradford on May 29, 2016 Categories: 2016 GOP Hopefuls, Republican Watch, WTF?  397787 SHARES FacebookTwitterSubscribeRedditStumbleupon Social Security has been called the third rail of American politics: Touch it and you die. And if that is indeed the case, then Donald Trump might want to start picking out a nice casket.  Bloomberg is reporting that when the GOP nominee met with Paul Ryan on May 12, he told the House Speaker that he does indeed favor cutting Social Security, but he’s afraid to say so publicly because it would doom his chances in November. Bloomberg cites an unnamed source who was in the room when the meeting was held.  According to the source, Trump told Ryan:  “From a moral standpoint, I believe in it. But you also have to get elected. And there’s no way a Republican is going to beat a Democrat when the Republican is saying, ‘We’re going to cut your Social Security’ and the Democrat is saying, ‘We’re going to keep it and give you more.’_”  This is in stark contrast to what Trump has repeatedly said on the campaign trail. Trump has said time and time again that he would leave Social Security alone.  Alex Lawson, executive director of Social Security Works, believes the real intent of Trump is the same as that of most Republicans: Drastically cutting benefits while pretending to support the program:  “It is really clear: Donald Trump would 100 percent go along with the Republican donor class position of cutting Social Security. He openly says he will lie to the people about it because he knows that the people are against it.  “In his eyes the ‘moral’ thing to do is to steal people’s hard-earned benefits and not talk about it.”  As we have seen repeatedly during the 2016 campaign, Trump lies about everything, reverses his positions on issues by the hour, and often seems to be utterly lost when asked for specifics about various policy questions. The man is an idiot. He is also a danger to the very essence of American democracy.  "	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		21884	17028	48883.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246082085484843	"Twitter Explodes In Mockery After Republican Congressman Blames Kaepernick For NYC Bombing  BY MARCOS DA SILVA   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 5.2k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY On Monday, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY) took to Twitter to use the apprehension of lead suspect in the NYC bombing investigation, Ahmad Khan Rahami, to take a shot at San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in an exceptionally clumsy attempt to connect his police recent brutality protests with terrorism, writing “You are welcome” after noting that Rahami was taken into custody:  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-7-41-10-pm  Zeldin obviously thought the tweet would give him the final say in the matter and a chance to say he thought Kaepernick was ungrateful, but the Internet had other plans.  After firing off his passive aggressive swipe at  the football player, Twitter would declare open season on him and continue to to roast him after declaring his ridiculous comment the new, “Thanks, Obama.”  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-7-58-19-pm screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-7-58-02-pm  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-7-25-04-pm Like “Thanks, Obama” in which Democrats mocked how Republicans went out of their way to link extremely remote events as outcomes of President Obama’s presidency, “You’re welcome, Kaepernick” could now be used to illustrate how absurdly far the right would stretch to manufacture a situation Colin Kaepernick should be grateful for.  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-8-01-58-pm  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-8-07-11-pm  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-8-02-18-pm The tweet made it to several verified accounts, most notably reaching host of Matter of Fact TV’s Soledad O’Brien. All in all, we can probably guess this is not how Congressman Zeldin planned on this tweet working out for him. Lets hope this bully learns his humiliating lesson, and stop trying to exploit a national scare to increase his national profile.  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-10-09-39-pm  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-10-09-56-pm  screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-10-09-47-pm  TAGS: STYLE"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		1204	3585	5303.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246088545484197	"JUST IN: Trump To Pick Oil Tycoon Who Hates Animals To Oversee National Parks  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 25.3k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY When Republicans decided to vote for a guy who promised skip pandering to oligarchs for money, little did they know their presidential nominee meant to hand control of America’s highest offices to those very billionaires directly.  Word has leaked that Donald Trump plans to nominate oil executive Forrest Lucas as Interior Minister, breaking the long tradition of naming those from the rural Western states to lead the agency which manages America’s public parks, lands and wildlife.  This would be disastrous for the fair enforcement of the Endangered Species Act, protecting the environment from the devastating effects of fracking, and animal rights in general, because Forrest Lucas is the sort of man who literally fights for the right to exploit animals in entertainment and is an avowed enemy of the Humane Society which provides low cost veterinary services, spaying and neutering to pet owners across the USA, as Politico writes:  Lucas, who owns a ranch and serves on Trump’s agriculture advisory committee, is one of the biggest donors to groups that attack the Humane Society and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and defend animal agriculture, hunting, meat consumption, rodeos and circuses.  Another source with knowledge of the transition operation said Lucas was on a short list of about five names that are under consideration for the post, which has started to attract considerable interest from prominent “anti-conservation zealots.” In a public hint of the rampant nepotism that Trump is planning to make official policy, they even said that the infamous cheetah killer, Trump’s self-entitled son Don Jr., is also in the running for Interior Secretary.  The Interior Ministry quite literally owns 28% of America’s land, manages our national parks and forests, the federal Fish & Wildlife Service, and also makes major decisions in the gambling industry because of its oversight of the commission that regulates tribal casinos. The Department of Interior holds massive sway over mineral extraction rights and leasing on public lands too, so the oil industry relies on it for decisions, regulations and pays rent to Uncle Sam through that government agency too.  The Sierra Club issued a stark warning about what Trump’s choice means for the country: “Putting an oil executive in charge of our public lands and precious coasts in places like North Carolina, Virginia and Florida is a virtual guarantee that Trump’s promise to throw open season on drilling in our special places will come true if he’s elected.”  Lucas is the kind of heartless swine who fought (and thankfully failed) to stop a voter ballot initiative that targeted cruel puppy mills in Missouri in 2010.  It’s scary to watch while Donald Trump dangles choices for a powerful appointed public office so outrageous it seems almost comical. If the only two choices are a reactionary oil company oligarch who will certainly plunder our nation’s natural bounty like a child in a candy shop and supports animal cruelty as a policy platform or the silver-spoon-fed self-entitled neo-Nazi misogynist scion who takes pleasure in slaughtering defenseless endangered animals with high-powered weapons, one might ask if this was a made-for-TV movie. But Donald Trump is very serious – as is the threat he poses to our country.     TAGS: STYLE"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		10654	13342	18073.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246101198816265	"Federal Prosecutors Accuse Chris Christie Of Masterminding Bridgegate (VIDEO)  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 15.6k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Federal prosecutors began the first “Bridgegate” criminal trial by leveling their biggest accusations at New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, even though his two main deputies are the ones on trial this week. At least one known death was attributed to Bridgegate by the news media.  Even though Christie isn’t a defendant in today’s court action, the stunning revelation from prosecutors means they may still see him as the ultimate target of their three year criminal investigation, as NJ.com reported:  U.S. Attorney Vikas Khanna, describing the chaos of the traffic jams that paralyzed Fort Lee beginning on Sept. 9, 2013, said David Wildstein,  a former Port Authority employee who plead guilty to federal charges last year, will admit he was the one who came up with that idea. The prosecutor added that Wildstein will testify he and Baroni told Christie about the scheme at the very moment traffic was at a standstill in Fort Lee during a Sept. 11 commemoration Manhattan.  “The evidence will show that Baroni and Wildstein were so committed to their plan to punish Mayor Sokolich that during those precious few minutes that they had alone with the governor, they bragged about the fact that there were traffic problems in Fort Lee and that Mayor Sokolich was not getting his calls returned. This case is about the defendants abuse of power and their callous disregard for the people of Fort Lee,” said Khanna. Last year, Trump publicly accused Christie of knowing about Bridgegate, but after the former federal prosecutor knocked out Marco Rubio in a primary debate and pledged blind fealty to the orange-faced one, the two Republicans have become nearly inseparable, no doubt brought together over a mutual love of McDonald’s.  Federal prosecutors are seeking to convict Bill Baroni, the former deputy executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and Bridget Anne Kelly, who was Governor Christie’s deputy chief of staff.  The only thing that the defense, prosecutors and all of the accused actually agree upon, is that the New Jersey Republican knew about his subordinates’ political retribution against a local mayor.  In fact, defense lawyers claim that the disruptive shutdown of the George Washington Bridge connecting Fort Lee to New York City now known as BridgeGate had to be covered up to protect Christie’s now tarnished political career, because even back in 2013 he was plotting a Presidential campaign:  Defense lawyers have long argued that Mr. Christie, a Republican, and his top advisers were well aware of the lane closings and that they directed the cover-up as they tried to protect the governor’s political aspirations — saying their clients were “thrown under the presidential bus,” as one lawyer argued on Monday. But this was the first time a prosecutor had pointed a finger at Mr. Christie. And it directly contradicts the governor’s statements in the three years since the lanes were mysteriously closed, paralyzing the borough of Fort Lee, N.J. As usual, the New York Times understates the forcefulness of Chris Christie’s prior defense of his blatant lies in BridgeGate. We uncovered this extraordinary video where the New Jersey Republican spent an astonishing two hours lying to the media in a televised press conference where he plainly claimed not to know anything.  For years, Christie has claimed that he got away with the crime of using his public office for political purposes to harm hundreds of thousands of New York and New Jersey residents stuck in massive traffic jams caused by his irresponsible Republican administration. From the sound of federal prosecutors, it appears that they simply waited until they had every other co-conspirator so firmly within their grasp to serve Christie notice, and he’s the most likely final target of this prosecution.  Watch his shame:"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		3813	12549	14613.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246126732147045	"UNPRECEDENTED: Pres. H.W. Bush Stuns Republicans, Endorses Hillary  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 67.8k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Republicans have been crossing party lines to announce their votes for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton throughout this year’s general election in numbers not seen in decades.  Now, Politico reports that the highest level defection yet comes from former President George H. W. Bush, who revealed to a Kennedy that it was time to go public in favor of the Democratic party’s candidate Hillary Clinton:  Bush, 92, had intended to stay silent on the White House race between Clinton and Donald Trump, a sign in and of itself of his distaste for the GOP nominee. But his preference for the wife of his own successor, President Bill Clinton, nonetheless became known to a wider audience thanks to Kathleen Hartington Kennedy Townsend, the former Maryland lieutenant governor and daughter of the late Robert F. Kennedy. The Republican Party’s embrace of unrepentant racism under Trump is personally stinging to the Bush family after his sons Jeb Bush married women of Hispanic origins and learned Spanish. It’s no surprise that the eldest Bush of the bunch would declare early his vote for Hillary Clinton.  Both of Texas’ major daily newspapers in Houston and Dallas, who are both deeply conservative news organizations, endorsed Hillary Clinton long before this year’s presidential debates, which kick off next week.  It must be reassuring to the elder statesman’s rare crossing of party lines, knowing that he can trust the depth of Hillary Clinton’s national security experience and that her relationships with foreign leaders is unmatched by any party’s nominee in possibly all of our nation’s history.  Former President George H.W. Bush won’t be the last prominent Republican to declare for Hillary Clinton in this year’s General Election, but he is one of the few whose judgement we can actually respect.  TAGS: STYLE"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		16922	47802	18803.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246555162104202		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3151	12665	19983.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246599022099816	"ILLEGAL: Trump Stole $258,000 From His Non-Profit’s Donors To Settle For-Profit Lawsuits, Says Washington Post  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 30.6k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY A new investigation has determined that Donald Trump’s charitable foundation funneled other people’s money into settling his lawsuits, which violates laws preventing charitable organizations from accepting donors funds and benefitting those who run the foundations. With a stroke of the pen Trump pilfered the average wage of five working Americans to payoff his business fines:  Donald Trump spent more than a quarter-million dollars from his charitable foundation to settle lawsuits that involved the billionaire’s for-profit businesses, according to interviews and a review of legal documents. Those cases, which together used $258,000 from Trump’s charity, were among four newly documented expenditures in which Trump may have violated laws against “self-dealing” — which prohibit nonprofit leaders from using charity money to benefit themselves or their businesses. The Washington Post‘s David Farenthold has doggedly chased down every lead from the Donald J. Trump Foundation and is in the process of singlehandedly using a dog-eared notebook (they’ve shown photos of it) to literally do what the entire news media is afraid of doing: a complete fact check of Donald Trump’s dubious history of illegal self-dealing and political corruption.  It was Farenthold’s investigation which has now caused every major newspaper in Florida to call for a federal investigation into the Trump University pay-for-play scandal where the very same foundation Trump robbed to payoff lawsuits also made an illegal campaign contribution to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi.  Now his reporting shows that he used the same foundation to settle a $120,000 fine for Mar-a-lago, Trump’s glitzy party palace in Palm Beach and the nation’s largest private home. Trump was supposed to donate money to a veteran’s foundation, instead he simply took it from others who donated to the foundation instead. Ironically, it was all because of the size of a flagpole:  In one case, from 2007, Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Club faced $120,000 in unpaid fines from the town of Palm Beach, Fla., resulting from a dispute over the size of a flagpole. In a settlement, Palm Beach agreed to waive those fines — if Trump’s club made a $100,000 donation to a specific charity for veterans. Instead, Trump sent a check from the Donald J. Trump Foundation, a charity funded almost entirely by other people’s money, according to tax records. This wasn’t just charity for the wealthy; it was a direct subsidy to one of the Trump Organization’s most prized businesses. But it wouldn’t be the only six figure heist engineered by Donald Trump with little more than the stroke of a pen. When you watch Donald Trump pitch his golf course in Scotland on a campaign trip, just remember that the mismanagement of his expensive golf courses frequently land the Republican nominee in court.  WaPo reports that:  One of Trump’s golf courses in New York agreed to settle a lawsuit by making a donation to the plaintiff’s chosen charity. A $158,000 donation was made by the Trump Foundation, according to tax records. On top of that, Trump also used his charitable foundation’s funds to buy a 6-foot tall oil canvas painting of himself and a $12,000 Tim Tebow football helmet. The latest find by Farenthold uncovered that he spent another $10,000 on second portrait of himself as well as $5000 for advertisements for his chain of hotels. We hear that the latest of Trump’s charitable oil-on-canvas selfies is smaller.  The New York Attorney General has already opened an investigation into the Donald J. Trump Foundation for its illegal transaction with Florida’s Attorney General, and these new revelations appear to fit right in with the pattern of the Republican’s nominee for President which we know all too well by now. Donald Trump is all too happy to lie or cheat or steal, as long as he can get away with it.  Here’s the check proving that Trump stole from his donors to pay for Mar-a-lago’s debts:   image002_c  TAGS: STYLE, TRUMP"	9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		16599	22532	24443.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246629568763428		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2761	8235	4013.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246718015421250		9/20/16	link	mostly true		8261	32737	28213.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246732282086490		9/20/16	link	mostly true		10477	11281	6733.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246739995419052		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		13073	26222	13953.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246796208746764		9/20/16	link	mostly true		13850	33796	8763.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1246856372074081	"Trump Silent As Police Credit A Sikh Immigrant With Capturing NYC Bomber  BY COLIN TAYLOR    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2016 55.6k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Once again, Donald Trump and the Republican Party’s fear-mongering about immigrants is proven false. Ever since an improvised explosive device injured 29 in Chelsea, New York City, Trump and his goons have revived one of their favorite talking points – vilifying Syrian refugees. “These attacks and many others were made possible because of our extremely open immigration system, which fails to properly vet and screen the individuals or families coming into our country” yelled Trump at one of his notorious hate-rallies on September 19th.  He later went on FOX News and in one broad stroke, painted all immigrants with outrageous hyperbole: “Think of it, Hillary Clinton wants to allow hundreds of thousands of these same people that are, you know, they have such hatred and sickness in their heart. It’s sickness, and it’s hatred, and she wants to allow hundreds of thousands more to come in.”  In fact, Mr. Trump, the truth is the bombing was committed by a naturalized American citizen – and authorities caught the suspect thanks to a Sikh immigrant, Harinder Bains. He is the owner of the bar in whose doorway Ahmad Rahami decided to take a nap in. When Bains saw the man’s face on CNN, he did what any responsible citizen would do.  He called the cops.  “I did what I think every American would have done. My neighbor would have done the same thing. Any Jewish, Christian, Sikh, Muslim. Anybody would have done the same thing…I’m from Sikh faith. I’ve been taught always stand up against the atrocities, any kind of persecution” said Bains to CNN’s Chris Cuomo.  He’s absolutely right – because our nation is a nation of immigrants. All of our forefathers are immigrants who colonized this land and committed genocide against the native peoples. Nobody has any more or less of a right to be here than everyone else, and picking on Syrian refugees because they’re Muslims fleeing chlorine gas and barrel bombs is the lowest of the low.  Our nation has accepted ten thousand refugees from Syria, a paltry number of the 4.6 milion Syrians that have been displaced by the horrifying violence of the Syrian Civil War. None of them have been connected to any domestic terrorist attacks in the United States.   The chance of being killed by a refugee in a terrorist attack is 1 in 3.6 billion; you are at much more danger from your own countrymen and their firearms. Mr. Bains’ actions reaffirm the notion that unity and welcome are our greatest assets. When immigrants feel accepted by a community, it becomes their community and they will work just as hard to defend it as anyone would.  For instance, the Orlando shooter was reported to the FBI by an immigrant at his local mosque after he discovered evidence of Mateen’s radicalization; racist Trump supporters repaid him by burning his house of worship to the ground. Mr. Trump and his campaign’s racist rhetoric only serves to drive us apart and puts us in more danger. He is the real threat to America – not refugee or immigrants.  TAGS: HAINER BAINS, IMMIGRANTS, NYC BOMBING, SIKH, STYLE, TRUMP"	9/20/16	link	mostly true		14910	42850	16853.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247033108723074		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		17046	22454	14053.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247047185388333	"Trump Said Blacks Are Worse Than Ever Under Obama. This Tweet Proves Him 100% Wrong.  BY LOU COLAGIOVANNI   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 10.9k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump claims to have “a great relationship with the blacks“while nearly every poll shows Trump losing the constituency by 80 percent or more. One of Trump’s vile advisers went so far as to say Trump doesn’t speak in front of predominately black crowds because he fears for his life, and with Trump’s recent disgusting comments in North Carolina about black voters, it is no surprise as to why.  The failed businessman gave a rambling, fact lacking, nonsensical speech in Kenansville, North Carolina where he lamented about Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s lack of foreign policy experience, despite Clinton being the most qualified presidential candidate in American history. After Trump’s failed attack, he moved on show the nation why black voters do not support his candidacy :  Our African American communities are in the worse shape they’ve ever been… Ever. Ever. Ever. This single tweet explains Trump’s racism perfectly:  tweet    It is quite convenient for Trump to neglect eras of history in the United States where black individuals were in, as he put it, “worse shape.” Apparently, Trump forgot the ancient times of less than 60 years ago, where black people were dehumanized, beaten, and shot with fire hoses while they attempted to fight for equal and fair treatment under the law.  If Trump were to look at his history book, which isn’t going to happen because the only books he owns are about how Hitler was a swell guy, he’d find it wasn’t until 1967 that the Supreme Court struck down anti-interracial marriage laws in seventeen states making it legal for black and white people to marry anywhere in the United States.  Perhaps the fake billionaire meant that black people were better off in America as slaves? That would be one of Trump’s best business concepts towards profits. Trump would reason black individuals would be fools not to prefer slavery, as they would be losing out on confirmed lifelong job security.  The pandering by Trump to the vilest racists among his ignorant constituency is no longer a dog whistle, but a blatant declaration that America as a nation is divided by race. He is implicitly longing to return to an era of segregated bathrooms, restaurants, and water fountains.  Trump highly preferred America when good honest white folks were given all of the best seats on public transportation, and black people, of who Trump said “laziness is a trait in black people” is doing them a favor by forcing them to walk to the back of the bus.  Trump’ deplorable ‘s character is on display for all to see, and his ignorant comments have done him no favors in helping to win over a key constituency he needs to win if he hopes to capture the White House.  Despite North Carolina being the state with the 7th largest black population, there is willy-nilly a black face in the entire crowd. Watch all of Trump’s heinous speech below, if you must.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZADcyBDZSw"	9/20/16	link	mostly true		3258	6824	10253.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247104542049264	"BREAKING: Massive Protests Erupt In North Carolina After Police Kill Disabled Black Man  BY COLIN TAYLOR    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 12k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Massive protests have broken out in Charlotte, North Carolina, after police shot and killed disabled African-American man named Keith Lamont Scott, who was apparently reading a book in his car, waiting for his son to come home from school when officers shot him dead. Details are still sketchy at the moment, but it appears the police were in search of of another armed man in the area.  Scott is the sixth civilian shot by Charlotte police this year.  Twelve officers have apparently been injured as tear gas canisters were fired into the crowd.  Coming so soon after the shooting of Terrence Crutcher in Tulsa, Oklahoma, it is clear that all the protests and anger at the disregard for the lives of black Americans shown by our police forces have accomplished nothing. Scott is the 215th black man shot by police this year.  This is an ongoing story that will be updated as new developments occur.   Follow  Breaking News _ @BreakingNews Charlotte-Mecklenburg, NC, police: 12 officers injured in clashes with protesters - @CMPD http://bit.ly/2d0V76H  9:32 PM - 20 Sep 2016   149 149 Retweets   58 58 likes "	9/20/16	link	mostly true		3853	9058	7513.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247571215335930	"Jimmy Kimmel Gave Fake Trump Tax Returns To His Supporters, And Their Responses Are Terrifying  BY MARCOS DA SILVA   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 15.4k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Jimmy Kimmel is back with his “Lie Witness News” segment, in which he submits his subjects to comedic man-on-the-street interviews. In this edition, the Kimmel team asked Donald Trump supporters out in Los Angeles their opinion on the presidential candidates’ tax return situation.  Over the past year Trump has come under fire for refusing to release his tax returns, defying what has become tradition in presidential elections. The Donald claims to be going through some unspecified “audit” causing him to postpone, also making the case that his supporters don’t really care about his tax returns.  That’s exactly what Kimmel wanted to put to the test, whether his supporters would bat an eyelash in their blind support no matter what the tax returns said. So, in order to see if Trump supporters would care at all about the content of Trump’s tax return, the Kimmel team came up with a bunch of controversial questions to ask about a made up tax return filed by Trump that had just come out.  “Was it legitimate for Donald Trump to write off his many marriages as “entertainment”?  What do you think of Donald Trump listing his primary occupation as “farmer”?  What do you think of Donald Trump donating $50,000 to Subway Jared’s Legal Defense Fund?” Sure enough, Trump supporters were immediately, and without hesitation willing to give him a pass no matter how outlandish or controversial the accusation seemed to be, with answers ranging from “It’s a loophole, if it’s there you’ve gotta utilize it” to “You know, we all kind of fib a little bit.” This goes to show,  sometimes we should be shocked, and outraged when we’re lied to. But nothing will shock Trump supporters, and nothing will make Trump supporters budge.  Watch below:"	9/21/16	link	mostly true		3951	7111	16213.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247579028668482	"Ohio Police Chief Crosses Blue Line, Voices Disgust Over Terence Crutcher’s Murder  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 25k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Police brutality has never truly left America’s national conversation, but it had taken a back seat to the presidential election circus until video showed Tulsa police shooting and killing Terence Crutcher in cold blood. It was all too much for one small town Ohio police chief, and his moving words have started gone viral on social media according to PINAC News:  But Middletown Police Chief Rodney Muterspaw said he could not remain silent after watching Tulsa police officer Betty Shelby shoot and kill Terence Crutcher, tweeting the following message Tuesday, which has been retweeted almost 6,000 times as of this writing. The video showing an Oklahoma cop shoot and kill Terence Crutcher after he had his hands in the air, only to later claim he was not complying, is so outrageous that even an Ohio police chief took to social media to voice his disgust. And that is something we never see. According to local media in his hometown of Middleton, Chief Muterspaw wrote on his Facebook page that if police officers “can’t do the job or are scared of people different than you, then get out of the job. You are making us all look bad. STOP.”  “It could be us tomorrow,” Muterspaw told the Journal-News. “You have to look at it. It’s not second-guessing anybody. It’s training for us. It’s a chance to learn from it. We are not robots. We have an opinion too. If it makes our department better and keeps our officers safer, if it makes the city better we should speak out about it.” He said Middletown officers have removed 137 weapons from suspects this year without firing their guns. Then he went onto twitter and fired off a pair of tweets heard round the world. Here’s the Chief’s two public tweets, which were embedded into PINAC News’ story before he took his account private after gaining national attention:  screen-shot-2016-09-21-at-12-53-12-pm  The message isn’t resonating in Tulsa, where officers have stuck to their hokum story that Terence Crutcher tried to reach into his car window for a gun – even though a video shows clearly that the window was closed. Now officers are trying to slander Crutcher claiming that it’s all a drug related issue, an obvious attempt to discredit their dead victim – which curiously, they hadn’t tried to do until his killing gained national attention. In any case, we don’t recall drug posession carrying the death penalty in United States of America, or the suspension of his right to a fair trial. Now Department of Justice officials are going to investigate the Tulsa officer who killed Crutcher, and with any luck field criminal charges against the cop whose story has frequently changed to desperately try and justify her lethal actions.  Chief Muterspaw’s impassioned call to the professionalism of police, to empathy in their daily life and his commitment to less violent policing is a lesson that one good cop won’t spoil the bunch. Sadly, this is newsworthy because he’s quite possibly the only high ranking police official in America who is (or was) openly siding with Americans, and siding with citizens right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  TAGS: STYLE, TERRENCE CRUTCHER"	9/21/16	link	mostly true		6914	22360	10583.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247598098666575		9/21/16	link	mostly true		3702	10348	20113.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247701661989552		9/21/16	link	mostly true		32013	52975	19103.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247814001978318		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1086	2862	1173.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247818778644507		9/21/16	link	mostly true		15352	22424	10923.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247825678643817		9/21/16	link	mostly true		9560	12587	18503.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247839045309147	"HORROR: In The 90’s, Trump Kept Hitler’s Speeches By His Bedside  BY LOU COLAGIOVANNI   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 21, 2016 7.2k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY After an exhausting day of ruining the lives of everyday Americans, rumor has it Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump likes to curl up in his gold-plated bed and relax with a book by his favorite author – Adolf Hitler.  Long before Trump began his run for president where racism, bigotry, hatred, division, and fear became the pillars of his campaign he was studying the work of man who is responsible for the third-most murders in human history. According to a 1990 Vanity Fair article written by Marie Brenner, Trump’s ex-wife Ivana, spilled the beans on Trump’s love affair with Hitler:  Ivana Trump told her lawyer Michael Kennedy that from time to time her husband reads a book of Hitler’s collected speeches, My New Order, which he keeps in a cabinet by his bed. Kennedy now guards a copy of My New Order in a closet at his office, as if it were a grenade. Hitler’s speeches, from his earliest days up through the Phony War of 1939, reveal his extraordinary ability as a master propagandist. When the pathologically lying Trump was confronted about owning the book he feigned ignorance. The interviewer asked him, “Did your cousin John give you the Hitler speeches?” Trump was shocked and attempted to deflect the question by asking a question, “Who told you that?” but he then confirmed he owned the book, “Actually, it was my friend Marty Davis from Paramount who gave me a copy of “Mein Kampf”, and he’s a Jew.”  That Trump would even admit to owning the book is bad enough, but his justification for owning the book offers a window into his contorted carnival house of mirrors logic. Trump reasons it’s okay to read about Hitler hating Jews, because his Jewish friend gifted it to him, and wouldn’t it be rude to discard the gift without giving it a thorough read?  Trump lied about lying, as is his standard fare. Marty Davis did indeed confirm giving Trump the book, but it was Hitler’s “My Jewish Order” not “Mein Kampf.” Whether or not that is worse is up for debate. Davis went on to say he isn’t Jewish, but that he and Trump are friends.  Then, likely after realizing he had outed himself as xenophobic towards Jewish people, Trump back peddled claiming even if he had Hitler’s book he wouldn’t read it. Trump said, “If I had these speeches, and I am not saying that I do, I would never read them.” What does he mean he’s not saying he has the speeches? He literally confirmed he had them moments earlier!  While it is an exercise in one’s gag reflex to picture Trump in bed, it is natural to picture him with a Nazi swastika draped over his headboard, while filling his brain with strategies to bamboozle and terrorize the public. Trump’s campaign has been ripped from Hitler’s playbook of demonizing minorities and blaming them for the ills of a nation, which is all the more reason why Trump must be prevented from winning the presidency in less than seven weeks. If Trump has been studying Hitler for almost 30 years it is too generous of a leap to believe Trump was only interested in Hitler’s rise to power, and in fact will continue to crib Hitler’s strategies if and when he assumes power himself.  TAGS: HITLER, STYLE, TRUMP"	9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		2527	5184	6083.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247875138638871		9/21/16	link	mostly true		10456	36030	12053.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247926135300438		9/21/16	link	mostly true		297	1374	3903.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1247936978632687		9/21/16	link	mostly true		7987	20107	14963.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248417465251305		9/22/16	link	mostly true		5641	16020	15773.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248457978580587		9/22/16	link	mostly true		6867	14239	62453.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248555601904158	"JUST IN: Man Screams “There You Go, Muslim!” As He Throws Firebomb Into Car  BY NATALIE DICKINSON   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 40.2k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY In yet another of the disturbing Islamophobic attacks occuring more and more frequently in the United States, a man in northern Philadelphia (Dauphin and Cleveland streets) is wanted for throwing a firebomb into an occupied car. The assailant allegedly screamed “there you go, Muslim!” as he hurled what is assumed to be an  improvised incendiary device into the vehicle.  The victim was rushed to the hospital and is being treated for severe burns.  The fearmongering rhetoric of Donald Trump and the far-right wing has lead to an appalling uptick in anti-Muslim attacks, the frequency of which increased by a staggering 87.5% after Republican nominee Donald Trump called for a ban on Muslims entering the United States.  Such heinous attacks only serve to divide us and make us less safe. It intensifies the perception that Muslims are not welcome in the United States, and it is precisely that kind of alienation that creates fertile ground for predatory radicals to work their pernicious evil. Jihadi propaganda relies on the central argument that Western “crusader” culture despises Muslims and that Islamic culture is incompatible with the West; these kind of attacks only prove their point.  That’s why Donald Trump has been featured in recruitment videos from brutal jihadi groups like Daesh (ISIS/ISIL) and Somalia’s al-Shabaab. Former CIA director Michael Hayden explained that “When Mr. Trump says some of the things that he has said — ‘they all hate us,’ ‘we shouldn’t let any of those people in our country’ — what he does is underscore and underpin the fundamentals of [the ISIS] narrative of undying enmity. We don’t have radicalized communities in the United States. We have some radicalized individuals, but we have it fully within our ability to create radicalized communities, and that kind of rhetoric … actually bends you in the direction of radicalizing communities.”  Unless we want the plague of terrorism to spread in the United States, we must be inclusionary and accepting, manifesting the values of tolerance and pluralism that our country was founded on. We cannot  allow the rabble-rousing ramblings of a bigot to put the lives of our citizens in danger.  Police are still searching for a suspect.  Here’s a video of the aftermath, courtesy of @FeministaJones:"	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		11036	19289	20733.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248606598565725	"Multiple Witnesses: Riot Police DID Shoot Unarmed Charlotte Protester In Head  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 7k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Last night, the city of Charlotte was rocked with protests for a second straight night as massive crowds protested the police killing of Kenneth L. Scott. During the protests, a civilian was shot in the head and critically injured. The police quickly told the media that the shooter was also a civilian, but a number of eyewitness reports seem to indicate that the police are lying – and that the shot came from law enforcement.  One key eye witness report emerged from Charlotte on Twitter, along with a graphic photo of the bloody aftermath and a haunting statement from Todd Zimmer, who claims to have assisted in the emergency response: “I didn’t want to post about this, but my city is lying about what happened tonight. Let the record show.”  View image on Twitter View image on Twitter  Follow  Max Berger __ @maxberger My friend @neutralized was on the ground in Charlotte. He saw the shooting. Here's his account. 9:33 PM - 21 Sep 2016   633 633 Retweets   307 307 likes We interviewed Kahran Meyer, who is a North Carolina criminal defense lawyer and a key eye witness on the scene. The 29-year-old published this tweet just an hour after witnessing the shots and noticing that the weapons discharge did not sound like a typical firearm:   Follow  BLACK MATLOCK @KahranAtLaw I watched a man die tonight with my own two eyes. It was NOT by a civilian. I don't care WHAT CNN tells you.   I was right fucking there. 7:22 PM - 21 Sep 2016   654 654 Retweets   371 371 likes “I didn’t realize that I was standing next to someone from CNN at the time. It started when everybody met at the park and marched from there down a couple of city blocks, when somebody said let’s march to the police station. It was peaceful, people had signs that said “Hands Up, Don’t Shoot,” Kahran Meyers told me at 1:50am tonight.  “The protest then marched to College Street and Trade Street in front of the Omni Hotel. At that time, police were not at all directing traffic, just keeping the peace,” Meyer told me almost breathlessly, “I’ve been told that the idea was to walk into the Omni and hold our hands up [in protest] and chant ‘hands up, don’t shoot’ and there was a crowd of roughly 1,000 people. We wanted to demonstrate to the upper class, the bourgeoisie that there is a problem.”  “After leaving ‘The Epicenter,’ police made a human barrier to block a return to the main square, so the crowd was facing the hotel. At that point, all of the protests were completely peaceful – and that’s when the riot police arrived. I swear to god, you could feel the temperature go up by 10 degrees.”  Meyers had a brief interaction with one of the riot officers at that point, and asked them whose idea it was to send out police in heavy armor. The Charlotte officer coyly nodded his head upward as if to indicate brass. Meyers told him that it was an unnecessary escalation and he replied, “oh, absolutely.”  Five minutes later, a protester lay near death in a pool of blood in the street.  “It wasn’t a gunshot,” she told us. “It was much louder. It wasn’t a civilian injury. The way people scattered. No way. At least a dozen people exclaimed loudly ‘They just shot him’ and people in the crowd were familiar with him [the protester shot by police]. At that point, the peaceful protesters who hadn’t already left, exited.”  At that moment, Meyers says that Charlotte-Mecklenberg police then read the riot act to the protesters. As she made it to the next block, police opened up with teargas from two directions into the already retreating crowd of peaceful protesters.  It took Meyers fifteen minutes to leave the scene, and as she was departing she spotted a news crew reviewing live video, it was a split-screen. According to Meyer, that videographer was from CNN and had been standing next to the lawyer, and when reunited said it was ‘entirely too loud for a gunshot too. It was so loud it shook my tripod and all of my equipment.’  CNN reports, “Police say the person was shot by a civilian.”  The City of Charlotte began spinning the protester’s grave injuries immediately on Twitter:   Follow  City of Charlotte _ @CLTgov ALERT: Fatal shot uptown was civilian on civilian. @CMPD did not fire shot. 6:33 PM - 21 Sep 2016 · Charlotte, NC   1,860 1,860 Retweets   1,060 1,060 likes Two additional eye witness reports have emerged on Twitter refute the Charlotte police’s claim that a civilian shot and severely injured a protester. The first is from the Charlotte Clergy Coalition for Justice, who issued a press release of sorts through a widely followed Palestinian rights activist.  “I saw the man go down on the pavement,” said Minister Steve Knight of Missiongathering Christian Church in Charlotte whose written statement points the finger squarely at Charlotte-Meckenberg Police for the shooting, “It was an ambush. The victim was shot while he stood between two ministers, and we believe he was shot by police.”  View image on TwitterView image on Twitter  Follow  Linda Sarsour _ @lsarsour #Charlotte Clergy question media & police accounts of tonight's shooting of protester. #CharlotteProtest #KeithLamontScott 7:45 PM - 21 Sep 2016 · Brooklyn, NY   762 762 Retweets   401 401 likes Lastly, a man named Eddie Thomas posted on Facebook – which was also shared via twitter – that, “within 5 mins (no exaggeration a dude lay bleeding on the ground, eye rolling in the bakc of his head. he got shot with something, maybe a rubber bullet. I yelled at the bike cops for help and they did nothing.”  21 Sep  Saul B. @RockB_LOOP We gotta stop being scared to TALK/listen to ppl. https://twitter.com/michele__arias/status/778764352014815232 …  Follow  Taryn J Mitchell @tarynj19 @RockB_LOOP @michele__arias @kahranasaurus pic.twitter.com/yTJtaScBGU 8:26 PM - 21 Sep 2016 View image on Twitter   42 42 Retweets   22 22 likes When African-Americans attempt to express their frustration and anger and the violence inflicted upon them by the state, the state responds the only way it knows how – with more violence.  Original story by Grant Stern at PINAC News: “WITNESS: Charlotte Riot Police Did Shoot Protester, Deny Involvement Blaming Civilians“  "	9/22/16	link	mostly false		2343	5113	3143.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248672898559095		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1593	8828	17023.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248746841885034		9/22/16	link	mostly true		5217	18535	8593.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248762311883487		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7997	14276	15643.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248782208548164		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2106	8601	2623.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248782888548096		9/22/16	link	mostly true		899	5320	4053.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248868088539576	"OUTRAGE: Trump Makes $1.8 Million In Profit From Taxpayer-Funded Secret Service  BY LOU COLAGIOVANNI   PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 13.5k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s campaign is in shambles and he is doing his best to soak the government for as much money as possible before he is humiliated at the ballot box by Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.  Trump’s latest escapade has been to swindle $1.6 million from the U.S. Secret Service for the honor and privilege of protecting him, according to FEC filings.  The Secret Service has a policy of reimbursing the campaigns of presidential candidates for the costs incurred due to various agents traveling with the candidate.  Typically a campaign will pay for the airfare of the Secret Service, and the campaign is then reimbursed those funds. However, Trump has found a way to make a profit through this policy by chartering planes to the Secret Service owned by, TAG Air, Inc, one of his companies. Therefore, the Secret Service – and the American taxpayer- are literally paying Trump.  This is in sharp contrast to Hillary Clinton’s campaign which has been chartering planes through Executive Fliteways, to which Clinton has no financial dealings or hopes of personal reimbursement. One’s imagination does not require a stretch to see the outrage amongst fanatical Trump supporters if Clinton were profiting from her travel, but selective outrage is their stock and trade.  Trump’s campaign says there is nothing illegal about what they’ve done. A spokeswoman of Trump’s campaign, Hope Hicks, said, “Everything was done in accordance with FEC guidelines and regulations. Please direct further questions to USSS.”  Along with Secret Service payments, Trump may also be soaking news organizations for the costs of journalists traveling with his campaign for the same reasons. It is also possible the Secret Service has been forced to pay Trump when their agents sleep in his grotesque golden hotels, as Trump stays at his own properties whenever possible. This is likely because he enjoys sleeping on the cheapest Chinese made beds money can buy.  TAGS: SECRET SERVICE, STYLE, TRUMP"	9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		5881	9508	10253.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248900688536316	"Senate Dems Move To Force Trump To Release His Tax Returns  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 11.7k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY The Senate reconvened this week as Democrats introduced a transparency in Presidential candidates bill that would force Donald Trump to release his tax returns, if Republicans would only be willing to face everything their racist nominee has done in his business career:  Democrats are backing legislation from Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) that would require presidential candidates to release their tax returns within 15 days of receiving the party’s nomination. It would also require the FEC would release the documents after 30 days, if a candidate did not.  “We’re going to be here next week. We’re probably going to have some downtime,” Sen.Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) told reporters. “There’s no reason we couldn’t vote.” Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and her husband the former President Bill Clinton have both disclosed over 30 years worth of tax returns, and all of the Clinton Foundation’s returns too. In fact, since 1976 only one candidate has refused to release tax returns, and in that election Republican Gerald Ford kept his taxes secret, and left the Oval Office after losing to Democrat Jimmy Carter.  In the 2012 election, Democratic Senate leader Harry Reid voraciously and publicly called out Republican nominee Mitt Romney for only releasing two years of tax returns, saying that he was hiding his returns for over a decade and that the candidate had paid a very low or no tax on his income whatsoever. He was right!  But America only found out just one week before the election, long after the start of early voting and absentee ballot mailing, when Bloomberg News published a definitive article on Romney’s taxes, which showed a huge income and no tax paid, validating the Democrat’s numerous public statements. According to The Hill:  Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), who has called out the GOP presidential nominee nearly every day recently, added Thursday that Trump is “ethically compromised” and the “king of the welfare kings.” Ironically, Romney’s father George Romney was a Republican candidate for President before him, and started the tradition of American politicians disclosing their financial details when running to become Commander in Chief.  American voters deserve to know what’s inside Republican nominee Donald Trump’s tax returns, to make the most informed votes possible. Because we all know every last detail about Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s finances and personal history, but outside of lying, racism and narcissistic self-love, the orange-faced one is still a mystery.  TAGS: SENATE DEMOCRATS, STYLE"	9/22/16	link	mostly true		2005	10452	6093.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1248992715193780		9/23/16	link	mostly true		688	2371	3023.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249620025131049	"BOMBSHELL: ABC Reveals Trump Paid “Hundreds Of Millions” By Russian Oligarchs  BY COLIN TAYLOR    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 46.6k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY Republican nominee Donald Trump has been treading treasonous territory for months now, raising eyebrows around the nation for a foreign policy that openly supports the ambitions of Vladimir Putin, the dictator of the Russian Federation. He’s surrounded himself with men with close ties to the Kremlin and the oligarchs that pull the strings behind the scenes; he’s being openly supported by Russian state-controlled media and by Russian intelligence services, who have breached the electronic servers of Democratic Party operatives and released selected pieces of information in an attempt to sow discord.  Throughout all of this, Trump has insisted that he has no business ties to Russia. “For the record, I have ZERO investments in Russia” he tweeted in July. Now – brace yourself, this might come as a shock – it appears he’s been lying to us the whole time.  An ABC News investigation has found that Donald Trump has “numerous ties” to Russian interests both here in the United States and in Russia. “The level of business amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars — what he received as a result of interaction with Russian businessmen. They were happy to invest with him, and they were happy to work with Donald Trump. And they were happy to associate—[and] be associated with Donald Trump” says Sergei Millian, who heads a U.S.-Russia business group.  Trump has reaped huge profits off his business deals with Russian oligarchs that stretch from hosting the 2013 Miss Universe contest in Moscow and selling Trump-branded real estate to “large numbers” of Russian buyers – so many that the Sunny and Hollywood Islands in Florida became known as “Little Moscow.”  The oligarchs of Russia made their fortunes by making deals to acquire huge numbers of shares in the state-owned companies of the former Soviet Union as the country shifted to a free-market economy, turning them into billionaires overnight. Towards the end of the Boris Yeltsin era, the oligarchs controlled 50% to 75% of all Russian finance. Now, they use their influence and wealth to prop up the Putin regime, while he turns a blind eye as they rob the country blind. Putin himself has amassed a fortune of $70 billion that could be as high as $200 billion.  The oligarchs are constantly looking to funnel their ill-gotten gains out of the country, and it turns out purchasing Trump properties was a favored way to do so. It makes sense – they are all men cut from the same gold cloth. They are self-entitled narcissistic materialists who care for nothing but increasing their own personal wealth.  “I think material wealth for them is a highly emotional and spiritual thing. They spend a lot of money on their own personal consumption…They don’t read books. They don’t go to [art] exhibitions. They think the only way to impress anyone is to buy a yacht” says former KGB agent Alexander Lebedev, who went on to describe them as “cultural ignoramuses…not interested in social justice.” Sound like anyone we know?  When the US State Department leveled sanctions on the Russian oligarchs in 2014 following Moscow’s annexation of the Crimea, the oligarchs had one of their key money-laundering tools cut off. If Trump were president, however, he could end the sanctions and allow them to continue to enrich themselves – and Trump himself. “We’ll be looking at that, yeah we’ll be looking” said Trump on the issue of sanctions in July.  These business dealings obviously present a great conflict of interest between the personal finances of a potential President and the foreign policy of our nation, which seeks to curtail the disruptive and corrupting influences of the Russian oligarchs and put a check on Russian territorial aggression in Eastern Europe. Would President Trump be able to put his personal profits aside? If this election has taught us anything at all, it’s that Trump cares about nothing but himself. We cannot allow him and his Russian cronies to take their corruption to the White House.  Watch ABC News’ report here:    TAGS: ABC NEWS, OLIGARCH, PUTIN, RUSSIA, STYLE, TRUMP"	9/23/16	link	mostly false		17635	22099	19703.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249673545125697		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1125	2323	4073.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249753408451044	"BREAKING: New Jersey Moves To Impeach Chris Christie Over “Bridgegate”  BY GRANT STERN    PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 71k SHARESSHARE THIS STORY New Jersey’s despised Republican Governor Chris Christie is in scalding hot water as the top state legislators are now looking into filing articles of impeachment against him if he is found guilty of having orchestrated the closing of the George Washington Bridge in order to punish a political rival. Christie has been ordered to produce personal emails related to the “Bridgegate” scandal by a judge, as WNYC reports:  The decision on impeachment will be up to Democratic Speaker Vincent Prieto and if he gives the go-ahead, the Assembly Judiciary Committee would begin the process.It takes a majority of the 80-member Assembly to vote articles of impeachment. If it passes the Democrat-controlled body, the trial would be in the Senate, where two-thirds of senators would be needed to convict. Although Democrats hold a majority in the Senate, they would need three Republican senators to join them if all Democrats vote to convict. Chris Christie is also Republican Presidential’s nominee Donald Trump’s transition team chairperson.  Just four days ago, federal prosecutors pointed the finger at Christie at the start of a federal trial involving three senior aides to the Governor, accusing Christie of being deeply involved in the political retribution plot to shut down the George Washington Bridge to New York City, which resulted in the death of one person  in an ambulance as enormous traffic jams stranded hundreds of thousands of motorists on one of the world’s busiest bridges.  Governor Christie was Trump’s most authoritative surrogate, as well as the first major “conservative” Republican endorser, in a move which most assumed meant that his political career was over inasmuch as his public service career now depended on Trump’s benefaction. Going from a multi-year flirtation with running for the highest office to endorsing Trump last March in a widely mocked ceremony then represented a stunning level of political debasement coming from the Governor.  Famously, Chris Christie once lied for two hours straight to a nationally televised press conference, which you can see below in its painstaking detail. It’s have cued it to 1:43 so you can watch the Republican Governor’s the flat out denial of any knowledge of BridgeGate which he gave on January 9th, 2014, just two short months after his re-election, and four months after the scandal which delayed ambulances and emergency services. BrideGate literally gridlocked an entire town.  Last week it was revealed that Governor Christie was actually informed personally about BridgeGate at the 9/11 memorial ceremony in 2013 from his senior aides, and stood by, and did nothing, though his aides knew about it and called him out for lying to everyone in their electronic messages.  The Republican Governor once thought to be the future of the party is about to be booted from office by his self-defeating act of lying about his administration’s bare knuckle political bullying. We will watch this story closely, and await the reaction of Republican nominee Donald Trump the impeachment charges Christie is facing, because the New Jersey Governor is one of the pillars of this year’s Republican Presidential campaign.  Watch his shame:"	9/23/16	link	mostly false		11931	39770	28973.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249798528446532		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4714	16365	5113.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249861458440239		9/23/16	link	mostly false		2593	7929	6313.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249875528438832		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3221	6293	8493.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249881725104879		9/23/16	link	mostly true		772	2878	2843.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249897058436679		9/23/16	link	mostly true		10632	10548	17973.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249949455098106		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		3640	7812	5543.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1249977691761949		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		6328	9788	7913.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1250119471747771		9/23/16	link	mostly true		8507	11335	16513.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252535468172838		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2778	9407	6343.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252609268165458		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2401	6880	2313.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252629544830097		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		14507	55692	40683.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252678871491831		9/26/16	link	mostly false		28254	59251	29813.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252701491489569		9/26/16	link	mostly true		4294	6778	14883.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252737651485953		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3207	6796	5023.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252757754817276		9/26/16	link	mostly true		4421	7729	8313.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252783344814717		9/26/16	link	mostly true		799	4160	10873.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252942604798791		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	1802	5018	2983.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252963304796721		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	2083	6983	1653.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1252992964793755		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	1623	5742	3873.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253016078124777		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	3367	8926	2793.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253051678121217		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	7755	14451	6273.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253052404787811		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1063	3631	1213.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253083338118051		9/26/16	link	no factual content		7198	27398	4823.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253085614784490		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1644	4769	2633.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253105088115876		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3518	8044	2973.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253135924779459		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	942	6556	1673.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253171768109208		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	8404	26021	37753.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253224401437278		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	1166	7585	2033.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253266704766381		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	10975	20953	5253.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253276448098740		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	3483	19265	10153.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253282391431479		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	22675	58948	22223.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253338024759249		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	10269	26345	7143.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1253773368049048		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	2678	10312	19263.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254000264693025		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	5541	9110	6383.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254011831358535		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1225	7503	1723.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254110944681957		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	7540	15205	14843.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254114411348277		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		11923	15228	42173.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254200998006285		9/27/16	link	mostly false		5054	10271	4313.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254206008005784		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	15508	43655	16693.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254256018000783		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		12897	17085	14873.47E+14	1.25E+15	left	Occupy Democrats	https://www.facebook.com/OccupyDemocrats/posts/1254326541327064		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	12212	48240	103762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840261811680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		47	646	28262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840402091680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		10	66	2262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840562681680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		25	107	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840763316680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		92	779	19262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840772606680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		163	631	24662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840786006680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		36	401	9662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840797346680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		6	54	1162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840829921680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		5	48	962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840851661680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		4	27	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840889606680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		26	64	1662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840910511680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		27	62	3962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153840981211680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		18	223	8062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841027911680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		268	1288	75562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841079491680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		35	91	6362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841127811680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		18	55	1462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841193386680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		10	17	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841233376680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		8	43	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841286046680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		154	1369	25162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841319486680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		12	211	11662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841356206680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		13	87	7462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841400221680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		10	72	3562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841432376680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		80	194	9062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841493231680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		24	557	11962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841546621680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		28	157	7262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841618796680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		5	146	7262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841655851680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		200	1151	27162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841692096680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		205	453	12562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841760176680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1	22	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841788741680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		35	734	19162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841823211680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		446	1985	34262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841860701680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		8	119	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841890571680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		41	218	8162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841929731680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		704	1636	28462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841957371680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		8	63	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153841964336680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		49	400	23962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842020851680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		72	491	25462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842058606680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		35	484	38062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842065926680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		40	687	36662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842099096680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		11	44	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842132046680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		74	876	21262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842182131680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		18	128	2362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842216156680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		44	620	6662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842249791680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		114	441	17062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842305311680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		40	510	37162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842334111680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		46	152	6262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842358101680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		6	65	3762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842379711680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		27	150	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842406986680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		11	127	8762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842435796680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		11	66	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842479576680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		19	204	10062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842559516680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		18	196	6562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842606101680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		10	41	2762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842678531680		9/19/16	link	mostly true		15	70	2362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842821881680		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		14560	39730	291562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842861371680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		371	1571	62862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842873226680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		32	557	20762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153842918621680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		45	267	11862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843021046680		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		90	957	10562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843180546680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		12	79	5462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843366721680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	220	2762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843387416680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		13	154	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843408101680		9/20/16	text	mostly true		2	58	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843427576680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		4	62	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843446956680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		5	15	462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843467631680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		24	508	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843499996680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1222	4298	37962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843504401680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		9	117	6762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843554316680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		9	36	3162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843596476680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		214	2150	16062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843648936680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		38	92	2862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843711636680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		28	791	5862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843759946680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		18	286	20762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843791081680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1230	6274	50262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843826016680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		41	420	29262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843866111680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		18	355	16262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843903451680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		20	361	24062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843941166680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		57	375	13462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843945641680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	254	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153843983636680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		76	883	30262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844010846680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		80	721	9062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844039931680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		27	129	5762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844060536680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		180	1892	26962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844101236680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		78	772	51862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844168046680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		214	1757	26262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844234911680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		64	251	8562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844304521680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		170	1485	14362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844358536680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		75	664	45062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844396341680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		48	577	14062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844429351680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		78	926	5662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844472611680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		82	1068	12462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844506581680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		74	968	15462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844548621680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		26	407	32962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844585616680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		803	891	38662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844618446680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		610	5083	49262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844659956680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3	128	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844699611680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		25	200	7162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844741636680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1	31	1662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844773411680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		5	78	2862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844805786680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		4	24	1662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844834326680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		33	403	9562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844870961680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		24	307	25562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844895091680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		39	496	18962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844918141680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3	9	1062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844940006680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		164	758	40362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844965281680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		12	94	4462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153844989821680		9/20/16	link	no factual content		159	429	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845003471680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		8	30	3062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845031091680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	83	1062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845069911680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		32	205	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845133901680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		26	702	11662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845233691680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		219	919	40462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845279441680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		156	1990	23262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845320591680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		6	52	3162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845395961680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		15	99	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845447241680		9/20/16	link	mostly true		6	290	11762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845501746680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		65	149	4462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845515421680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		26	370	7162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845627766680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		13	47	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845750276680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		11	68	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845862231680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		246	1472	19762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845881311680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		137	1585	24262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845899766680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		15	106	4662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845915901680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		8	226	6162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845961966680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		23	91	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153845997846680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		82	219	9362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846035016680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		2	14	462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846051046680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		12	356	4562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846085581680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		103	158	2162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846136131680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	32	462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846202846680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		5	96	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846270501680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		16	230	5762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846298466680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	22	1062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846330326680	"State spokesman on Clinton questions: 'I don't view it as a distraction' By NICK GASS 09/21/16 07:48 AM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Lingering questions about Hillary Clinton, her email arrangement and alleged pay-for-play with the family foundation during her four years at the State Department are not a distraction, spokesman John Kirby emphasized Wednesday.  During a sit-down on ""Fox & Friends,"" Kirby faced off with questions about the situation on the ground in Syria and the issue of vetting refugees to the United States before co-host Brian Kilmeade posed a question about Clinton and then took a step back to ask the rear Navy admiral what he thought about such questions.   ""How much harder is your job being that you had all these things to handle as well as trying to justify what Hillary Clinton did over the last four years? Most of your job is questions about her four years,"" Kilmeade asserted. And it must be -- you must be saying to yourself -- can I just do this job? How much of a distraction has this been?""  ""Look, the job’s hard enough, being a spokesman is tough in any environment. And there's a lot going on in the world,"" Kirby responded. ""What we've tried to focus on with respect to this particular issue is our responsibilities at the State Department and explaining the policies and regulations that were in place then, the ones that are in place now, and how we're trying to improve going forward.""  Noting that Secretary John Kerry ""has been very, very open and forthright about admitting we can do a better job with our records management at the State Department,"" Kirby added, ""We want to be more transparent.""  ""You sure? I mean, just don't jump to conclusions,"" Kilmeade said.  ""We know we can do a better job with records management. And he's hired a former ambassador to come in and do nothing but help us be better at transparency,"" Kirby continued. ""Look, I don't view it as a distraction. It's part of my job. When you stand up there every day, that's what you gotta do."""	9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	18	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846364036680	"Former CIA chief: Obama's 'retrenchment' like Trump's 'America First' By NICK GASS 09/21/16 07:25 AM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter President Barack Obama and Donald Trump are alike in at least one regard, according to former CIA Director Michael Hayden.  ""You know, last week I mentioned there was difference in language between Mr. Trump and President Obama. You know, there's not a whole lot of difference between the Obama administration's retrenchment and Mr. Trump's America First. There are common themes there,"" Hayden said Wednesday on MSNBC's ""Morning Joe"" during a discussion of Obama's final United Nations address.   Hayden, who served as CIA director under George W. Bush from 2006-2009 and briefly under Obama, remarked on MSNBC's ""Morning Joe"" that the last Republican president ""probably would have been challenged to make a speech so eloquent as President Obama’s yesterday,"" while adding that Bush ""would have done so much behind the scenes.""  ""I sat in the Oval Office. We had a meeting and he would just turn over his shoulder and say, ‘Get me [former Pakistani President Pervez] Musharraf.’ He actually worked on the issues and invested his personal energy and I should add personal prestige and political capital in risking that in order to make things different in the world,"" Hayden said. ""And sadly, I just don't think we're seeing much of that in the last half a dozen or eight years.""  Former Bush aide Nicolle Wallace offered her own criticism of Obama's speech, noting that she heard from Middle Eastern leaders would likely describe the president's address as ""probably decent and perhaps elegant analysis, but he's not an analyst.""  ""What they heard was the complete lack of any connection to any world leaders. He didn't give a speech in that room as though he were in constant contact with anybody else in the room,"" Wallace said. ""He gave a speech as if he never talked to these people, as though the only contact were public ones and that that was so different not just from George W. Bush, who had better private relationships than some of the conflicts that erupted in public, but ... there hasn't been an American president with fewer or weaker relationships with world leaders.""  As co-host Joe Scarborough went on to say that history would judge Obama to be a president with few friends on Capitol Hill regardless of party, Wallace chimed in, ""He didn't have any friends."""	9/21/16	link	mostly true		4	17	862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846398206680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		607	2268	94462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846438271680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		33	312	15162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846481181680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		40	320	15562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846515501680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		3	44	1062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846555881680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		52	434	22362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846574826680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		522	1920	89062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846614656680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		28	462	5662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846652476680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		46	475	12762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846706141680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		3	31	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846770616680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		22	472	23062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846788566680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		23	142	5162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846817696680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		71	798	38062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846836976680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		26	304	13262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846905681680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		52	427	26662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846938436680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		76	713	14862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846941491680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		79	671	43362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846966931680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		13	394	37362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153846995896680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		82	1607	10162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847031741680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		300	1341	19062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847064376680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		110	1172	78262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847091516680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		71	583	30462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847125901680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		25	270	8262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847163006680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		10	125	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847187836680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		3	19	662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847223121680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		4	41	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847279056680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	14	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847320176680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		27	553	14062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847347491680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1163	1785	55262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847391361680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		283	3388	32662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847441176680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		33	396	19762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847457141680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	81	3062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847470396680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		9	93	4762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847508461680	"Next president could face a 50-50 Senate Any one senator — from Elizabeth Warren on the left to Ted Cruz on the right — might be empowered to block cabinet nominations. By BURGESS EVERETT and SEUNG MIN KIM 09/21/16 06:32 PM EDT 162109-senate-elections-js-1160 What once looked like a potential wave year for Democrats has tightened to the point an evenly-divided Senate has become a real possibility. | John Shinkle/POLITICO  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD The campaign for Senate control increasingly looks like a flip-of-the-coin affair — a 50-50 split after the election is not far-fetched.  That could be a nightmare in the making for whoever wins the White House.  Any individual senator — from Elizabeth Warren on the left to Ted Cruz on the right — could almost single-handedly block the new president’s Cabinet picks, depending on which party is in power. If you think the past several years of Senate gridlock have been bad, that might look like a joy ride by comparison.  “It’ll be a whole new shooting match,” said Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.).  “One of the concerns that I have is that [with] the rancor of this campaign, everybody will feel like it’s still open season on whoever the elected president is,” said Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.). “I hope we can get beyond that.”  The Senate’s unique power over confirmations means the chamber will be called upon early and often to ratify the Cabinet selections of the new president, whether it’s Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump. The election outcome could have a big bearing on that: What once looked like a potential wave year for Democrats has tightened to the point that an evenly divided Senate has become a real possibility. That would leave virtually no margin for error when it comes to approving the president’s team next year.  “We’re looking at a Senate somewhere between 52 and 48. Probably the outside numbers are 48 for one side and 52 for the other,” said Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), who himself is up for reelection. “It could be a tied Senate.”  That outcome would also present a new test for the relationship between Capitol Hill and the White House. The confirmation process has grown ever more partisan over the past 15 years, despite the move by Democrats to weaken the filibuster so that all nominees except those to the Supreme Court can be confirmed by a simple majority.  Ted Cruz is pictured. | AP Photo Cruz warms to Trump By BURGESS EVERETT The most likely Senate makeup is 51-49, or 50-50, in which case ties would be broken by the vice president. Democrats fear that even if Clinton wins but Republicans keep the Senate, the GOP would drag its feet on her Cabinet picks and hobble her administration out of the gate.  “If you have President Clinton and a Republican-controlled Senate, as we’ve seen with judicial appointments, the majority leader has the ability to obstruct virtually at will,” said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.). “By refraining from bringing nominations to the floor, that could single-handedly prevent the president from confirming her team.”  Warning shots are already being fired. On Wednesday, Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, gave a speech at the Center for American Progress that included a sharp signal to Clinton not to pick insiders with ties to the financial industry for her administration.  “When we talk about personnel, we don’t mean advisers who just pay lip service to Hillary’s bold agenda, coupled with a sigh, a knowing glance and a twiddling of thumbs until it’s time for the next swing through the revolving door,” Warren said.  Moderates are already entertaining what it will be like next year to hold the keys to Clinton’s Cabinet. Five senators from red states are running for reelection, and several from purple states will be up for reelection, and any one of them could accrue effective veto power over nominees who rub them or their state the wrong way.  “Senators who are up in 2018 are already talking about it,” said Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.).  The Senate dynamics surrounding Supreme Court confirmations and legislation probably won’t shift much, since they need 60 votes to move forward.  Outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) recently urged Democrats to scrap the supermajority requirement even for bills if they win back the chamber. But it’s unlikely the party would go there, at least for now.  162109-chris-murphy-congress-getty-1160 Senate backs tank sales to Saudi Arabia By JEREMY HERB and SEUNG MIN KIM Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), a stalwart liberal in the caucus, said he is “cautious” about dumping the 60-vote threshold on the legislative filibuster anytime soon.  But “if the Republicans are now into almost a decade of a lack of good faith and cooperation, then I think we have to reconsider everything,” Schatz said. He added: “Most of us are not anxious to move in that direction, but if we can’t function, then what is it exactly that we’re protecting?”  Republicans say that won’t be necessary.  “I do hold out some hope that knowing [ascending Democratic Leader] Sen. [Chuck] Schumer the way I do — he and I work well together — that we can find ways to build consensus,” said Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas). “It’s clear that voters don’t like the direction of the country now.”  Republicans say they hope to play nice on nominees, too — even if Clinton is president. But there’s a lot of bad blood from the Obama era: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) kept Attorney General Loretta Lynch waiting for weeks last year and has refused this year to fill a Supreme Court vacancy. Democrats, for their part, changed the Senate’s rules and spent more than a year in the majority confirming lifetime judges over the objections of GOP leaders.  Republican candidate for U.S. Senate Wendy Long speaks during a 2012 debate. Schumer opponent calls for end of federal student loans By NICK NIEDZWIADEK GOP senators said in interviews that the best way for the White House to get in sync with the Senate is to begin voting on the least controversial judges and Cabinet positions and get in a rhythm — rather than first take up nominees viewed as partisan or controversial.  “The first ones that they send up will set the tone for a lot of that,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), the Senate Foreign Relations chairman. Selecting “some radical,” he added, “would not be a great way to start the process.”  And there are a couple of remaining moderates in the GOP conference, most notably Sen. Susan Collins of Maine. She said that unless there are “integrity” issues with a nominee, she’s inclined to help confirm the person. That could be a lifeline for Senate Democrats if every confirmation vote turns into a squeaker.  “I hope we’re not going to get into blocking Cabinet nominees for the sake of blocking them,” Collins said. "	9/21/16	link	mostly true		11	83	2762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847524546680	"Poll: Trump leads Clinton in Ohio, Nevada, North Carolina By LOUIS NELSON 09/21/16 06:37 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump has pulled ahead of Hillary Clinton among likely voters in a trio of swing states, according to a Fox News poll released Wednesday evening.  In a four-way race that also includes Libertarian Gary Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein, Trump leads Clinton 43 percent to 40 percent in Nevada, 45 percent to 40 percent in North Carolina and 42 percent to 37 percent in Ohio.  Johnson polled at 8 percent in Nevada and at 6 percent in both North Carolina and Ohio. The only state in which Stein registered any support was Ohio, where she polled at 2 percent.  President Barack Obama won all three states in 2008 and took Ohio and Nevada in his 2012 reelection campaign. All three are essential for Trump, who faces a relatively narrow electoral path to the White House relative to Clinton.  The Fox News poll is good news for the Trump campaign after a fresh NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released earlier Wednesday showed Clinton with a 6-point lead nationwide.  The Fox poll also shows Republican Senate candidates in each state with leads over their Democratic opponents. The biggest advantage of the three belongs to incumbent Ohio Sen. Rob Portman, who leads former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland 51 percent to 37 percent. Another incumbent, North Carolina Sen. Richard Burr, leads Democrat Deborah Ross by 6 points, 43 percent to 37 percent, while GOP Rep. Joe Heck leads Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto by 7points, 43 percent to 36 percent, in the race to fill outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid’s Nevada Senate seat.  In North Carolina’s gubernatorial race, Republican Gov. Pat McCrory holds a small lead despite the still-swirling controversy surrounding his decision to sign into law a bill perceived by many to be discriminatory against transgender individuals. The incumbent GOP governor leads his Democratic challenger, North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper, by a 3-point margin, 46 percent to 43 percent.  The Fox News poll was conducted Sept. 18-20 via both landlines and cellphones. It reached 704 likely voters in Nevada, 734 in North Carolina and 737 in Ohio. The margin of error in all three states was plus-or-minus 3.5 points."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		108	814	26862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847550156680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		169	751	22962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847588101680	"Who’s In Charge of America After a Catastrophe? Who Knows? Television’s 'Designated Survivor' imagines a hapless cabinet secretary becoming president. The truth about succession is way less certain. By GARRETT M. GRAFF September 21, 2016  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print MOST POPULAR  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard The “designated survivor” has long been one of Washington’s favorite parlor games—imagining what America would be like if a catastrophe befell the capital during a State of the Union and the most powerful office in the land were delivered unwittingly to the cabinet official who had been hidden away as the president-of-last-resort. What would America have looked like under President Jeh Johnson (2016)? President Ernest Moniz (2014)? Or even President Alberto Gonzales (2007)? And then there are the weirder examples: In 2001, had a catastrophe occurred during the inauguration, Americans expecting Republican President George W. Bush might have instead found themselves with a Democratic president named Larry Summers.  The idea is startling enough to fuel a new Kiefer Sutherland TV drama, Designated Survivor, in which the 24 actor plays a hapless Housing and Urban Development Secretary who finds himself ushered into the White House after a catastrophic attack on the Capitol.  You might assume that for something as important as presidential succession, the world's most powerful nation has it down to a science. That’s the scenario that Hollywood lays out in the show premiere tonight: Sutherland, who just minutes before had been headed to political obscurity in a low-profile ambassadorship, is instead ushered into the White House by an efficient set of government minders.  But in reality, the system is far less clearly delineated, and dogged by questions that are likely to begin the moment it’s pressed into action. I’ve spent the last three years researching a forthcoming book on the government’s doomsday plans, and one fact that emerged starkly is just how uncertain the whole process is. The system of presidential succession is relatively new, and in many cases it's surprisingly unclear who becomes president. As legal scholar Akhil Amar, who had long studied the legalities of succession, told Congress during one hearing after 9/11, “The current Presidential succession Act, 3 U.S.C. section 19, is in my view a disastrous statute, an accident waiting to happen. It should be repealed and replaced.”  Indeed, the presidential succession plan is the rare Washington story that’s even stranger—and contains even more unexpected twists—than the Hollywood version. For one thing, the system, known as “continuity of government,” is vastly larger and more complicated than most people realize. While attention usually focuses on the main presidential successor, during high-profile events a much broader shadow government often waits in secure undisclosed locations. During President Obama’s inauguration in 2009, when Defense Secretary Robert Gates was the designated presidential successor, James Clapper—then the undersecretary of defense for intelligence—waited out the swearing-in at the Pentagon’s secret Cold War bunker in Pennsylvania known as Raven Rock, ready to step into Gates’ role as defense secretary if the need arose.  But the even weirder thing is what might happen after a disaster. In fact, had Gates emerged from a cave to claim the presidency on January 20, 2009, it might’ve only marked the opening gambit in a legal drama that could have played out for days, weeks, or even months as a variety of officials from all three branches of government argued over who could rightfully claim the presidency.  ***  For about three hours the designated survivor teeters on the edge of becoming the most important person in the world. That moment in the spotlight—or, more accurately, far from the spotlight—can be brief. The night in 1997 Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman served as the “designated survivor” during one of President Clinton’s addresses to Congress, Glickman went to New York for the night, with a security detail and the nation’s nuclear codes in tow, only to find that as soon as the speech was finished—and the need for a successor over—the security apparatus abandoned him, leaving him in the rain to catch his own taxi home.  The idea of a “designated survivor” was formalized by the Carter and Reagan administrations, as White House officials worried about nuclear missiles aboard Soviet submarines that lay off the Atlantic Coast and could have devastated the capital with barely 10 minutes’ notice.  President Carter’s White House Military Office in April 1980 had instituted new procedures with FEMA to monitor the attendance of all presidential successors “at major, publicly announced functions outside the White House complex.” While such gatherings of the U.S. leadership had been commonplace in the past—at inaugurations, states of the union, state funerals and the like—the rising tensions of the Cold War made government planners questions their wisdom. “The situation provides an inviting target to enemy attack or terrorist activity, and represents an unnecessary risk to national leadership,” the White House Military Office wrote, outlining the new procedures.  The 25th Amendment—itself a modern relic of the Cold War and fears of nuclear attack—lays out a seemingly clear line for presidential succession. It flows from the vice president to the House speaker to the Senate president pro tem, then through the cabinet in the order in which the departments were created—a quirk that itself makes the Department of Homeland Security secretary, one of the people best qualified to actually assume the presidency in a disaster, actually last in line.  When all those in the line of succession were gathered in a high-profile setting, FEMA was to notify the White House and an aide would recommend to the president which qualified cabinet successors should skip the event. (Constitutionally, foreign-born cabinet secretaries, like current Interior Secretary Sally Jewell—a Brit!—don’t serve in the line of succession.) It falls to a little-known branch of FEMA, the Central Locator Service, to track the whereabouts of the successors daily, and once a month, after the fact, audit a single day to determine whether it had correctly known where each cabinet member was.  The new White House and FEMA procedures got their first test at Reagan’s inaugural. The incoming and outgoing administrations had agreed that Carter’s outgoing defense secretary, Harold Brown, would remain in office past the standard noon departure and ensure that there was a national leader in case something catastrophic happened at the ceremony. “Both sides agreed that something should be done,” a FEMA official explained later. Brown only resigned later on inauguration day once the Reagan team was firmly in control of government’s levers.  The “designated survivor” program would grow more formal in the years to come—the chosen Cabinet member would receive a Secret Service detail for the length of the event and a White House military aide would arrive for the evening with one of the emergency briefcases known as the “Football,” which contain instructions on how to access the nation’s nuclear weapons codes—in case the unthinkable happened and the designated survivor needed to be ready to launch an attack.  The “designated survivor” program, though, raised a new problem: How would the “designated survivor” prove he or she was actually now the president? The government lacked simple procedures for figuring out how to double-check that person’s identity after a decapitation event. Is the person at the other end of the phone really Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack (State of the Union 2012)?  “One of the things we discovered is that there was no authentication system,” Reagan’s first FEMA head Louis Giuffrida said in 1981. “If a successor got on the horn and said, ‘I’m the successor,’ and somebody said ‘Prove it,’ [no one could]. So we’re working on that, and FEMA will be the authenticating mechanism to say, ‘Yeah, this guy’s for real. The president’s gone and we don’t know where the vice president is…and this is the man.’”  In the years ahead, FEMA and the White House worked out an elaborate (and classified) system through which a successor would be able to confirm his or her identity, and in subsequent years the “designated survivors” became a common part of Washington lore, and often yielded amusing stories from those who served. Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala recounted the story of how she watched the 1996 State of the Union from the White House and ordered pizza. “I took my staff with me and I ordered pizza for them in the Roosevelt Room,” she said years later. “I went to the Oval Office and for one minute sat in the president's chair and then I got up respectfully and went to watch the speech with my staff.”  Yet, in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, a bipartisan commission examining the nation’s succession planning found that odd—and troubling—quirks persisted that could lead to serious constitutional quandaries in just the sort of situation that Kiefer Sutherland’s character, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Tom Kirkman, experiences in the TV show.  As clear as the line of succession may appear on paper, legally it would likely prove a much messier proposition the further down the list you go and cabinet officials become involved. And it could get particularly tangled if the president or vice president is only “incapacitated,” rather than killed outright.  It’s not entirely clear, even, that the House speaker or the Senate president pro tem could legally serve as president. Republican Senator John Coryn raised the question during the debate in the early 2000s of what would happen if a speaker of the House or Senate president pro tem ascended to the presidency—and then was challenged by the secretary of state who argued that the legislators didn’t count as constitutional officers, making them ineligible to serve in the presidency. “Believe it or not, the secretary actually has a rather strong case, in my view,” Cornyn said. No less an authority than James Madison himself had argued that the congressional leaders were legislators, not constitutional officers, and thus ineligible to succeed to the presidency. As Cornyn said, “Who is the president? Whose orders should be followed by our armed forces, by our intelligence agencies and by domestic law enforcement bureaus? If law suits are filed, will courts accept jurisdiction? How long will they take to rule? How will they rule? And how will their rulings be respected?”  In the years after 9/11, the so-called “Continuity of Government Commission,” pushed by American Enterprise Institute scholar Norm Ornstein, who has assumed the role of Washington’s succession Cassandra and has spent much of the last 20 years raising troubling questions about the 25th Amendment’s ambiguities, confronted one of the strangest and most nettlesome phrases in “COG” operations. It’s a seemingly unnecessary aside in the language guiding presidential succession known as the “supplantation clause,” which held that a “prior-entitled” presidential successor, that is someone who ranks higher in the official line of succession, could supplant a lower-level Cabinet official who was serving as “acting president.”  For instance, in a situation where the president and the congressional leadership was killed, but the vice president only incapacitated, the secretary of state would presumably serve as “acting president” until the vice president was able to resume his or her responsibility and become the president. But the “supplantation clause” inserted unhelpful ambiguity: Could, after Congress reconstitutes itself, a newly elected speaker of the House or Senate president pro tem insist on replacing the secretary of state even after that person had assumed the office of “acting president”? Could a newly elected speaker supplant a president pro tem? Might the presidency swing wildly in a few days, at the height of a crisis, between different officials and different political parties?  The Continuity of Government Commission tried also to tackle an ongoing problem with presidential succession that had dogged the debate for decades: Even with the idea of designated survivors for major high-profile gatherings and all the evacuation systems in place, on a day-to-day basis everyone in the presidential line of succession lives and works in a tiny radius extending a few miles around the White House and the Capitol. “In the nightmare scenario of terrorists detonating a nuclear device, it is possible that everyone in the line of succession might be killed,” the commission’s executive director, John Fortier, told Congress during one hearing. “Imagine the aftermath: a parade of generals, governors, and under secretaries claiming to be in charge.” It would be the chaos of Al Haig’s “I’m in control here” statement during the Reagan administration writ larger and more fraught.  One proposal, floated during the post-9/11 discussions, would have created a “First Secretary,” a Cabinet official who would have been first-in-line to the presidency after the vice president and whose sole responsibility would be to remain outside of Washington and be the designated survivor to head the shadow government if a catastrophic event destroyed the capital. It would be a job, in essence, to remain in an “undisclosed location” until the worst moment of American history.  * * *  Such questions make the nation, under existing rules, particularly vulnerable during presidential inaugurations. The terms of the president and vice president constitutionally expire at noon on January 20th, but their cabinets remained in office until either a resignation is tendered or a successor is confirmed by the Senate—which usually doesn’t happen for hours or even days after an inauguration.  In 2001, as Fortier, the commission leader explained, a terror attack that targeted George W. Bush’s inauguration, might have left the nation with a president carried over from the previous administration who would then serve until Congress had a speaker or president pro tem who would “bump” out the president and serve the rest of the four-year term of office. Fortier said, “A country expecting Republican George W. Bush to take office would have found themselves with a Democratic President Larry Summers. As secretary of the treasury, Summers was the highest-ranking Clinton Cabinet member eligible to serve as President.”  In 1989, at George H.W. Bush’s inauguration, the situation would have been even more confusing, with the same strange outcome: Michael Armacost, the number three official at Reagan’s State Department, would have been elevated to president of the United States, for the outgoing secretary of state, George Shultz, and deputy secretary of state, John C. Whitehead, had both resigned before the inauguration. Then, with the House in Democratic hands, a newly chosen speaker could have bumped Armacost and given the nation four years of Democratic rule immediately after it elected a Republican president. In fact, given that the Senate took five days to confirm James Baker as secretary of state after Bush’s inauguration, Armacost remained fourth in line to the presidency for the better part of a week.  GettyImages-607369824.jpg FOURTH ESTATE Was the Terror Coverage More Explosive Than the Bombs? By JACK SHAFER Eric Draper/George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum THE FRIDAY COVER ‘We’re the Only Plane in the Sky’ By GARRETT M. GRAFF Armacost went on to serve as president of the Brookings Institution and Summers went on to serve as president of Harvard University, so both men ended up with the title of “President,” but—had an unprecedented crisis summoned them to lead in 1989 or 2001—it’s hard to imagine that the ascension of either man to the American presidency would have proved reassuring to the nation in its moment of need.  Unless Kiefer Sutherland’s drama reopens the debate, there are no plans to fix any of these—or a host of other—problems with presidential succession. Congress tabled and ignored the fixes on the table a decade ago, and except for a few lonely congressional voices in the years since, like Rep. Brian Baird, there’s been little attention since.  So, as you tune in to watch Kiefer Sutherland heroically step in and lead the nation on TV, know that you’re perhaps watching the ultimate Hollywood fiction: The idea that the government’s Doomsday plans would actually work.  Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Journalist Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) is the author of The Threat Matrix: The FBI at War, and a former editor of POLITICO Magazine. His next book, Raven Rock, about the U.S. government’s Doomsday plans, will be published in May 2017. He can be reached at garrett.graff@gmail.com. "	9/21/16	link	mostly true		31	122	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847626546680	"Trump joins Cruz in attacking Obama's internet plan By POLITICO PRO STAFF 09/21/16 05:05 PM EDT Updated 09/21/16 05:55 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump's campaign Wednesday criticized the Obama administration's plan to hand oversight of the internet's domain name system to an international body, echoing Sen. Ted Cruz's argument that it could lead to more censorship by countries like Russia and China.  ""The U.S. should not turn control of the Internet over to the United Nations and the international community. President Obama intends to do so on his own authority — just 10 days from now, on October 1st, unless Congress acts quickly to stop him,"" Trump's national policy director, Stephen Miller, said in a statement published on the campaign's website.  ""The Republicans in Congress are admirably leading a fight to save the Internet this week, and need all the help the American people can give them to be successful. Hillary Clinton’s Democrats are refusing to protect the American people by not protecting the Internet,"" Miller wrote.  Ted Cruz is pictured. | Getty Cruz: Obama officials could face jail for internet ‘handover’ By ASHLEY GOLD ""Internet freedom is now at risk with the President’s intent to cede control to international interests, including countries like China and Russia, which have a long track record of trying to impose online censorship,"" the statement continued. ""Congress needs to act, or Internet freedom will be lost for good, since there will be no way to make it great again once it is lost.""  Cruz, who has famously refused to endorse Trump's candidacy, thanked the GOP nominee in a tweet: ""Appreciate @realDonaldTrump’s support of our efforts to stop Obama’s Internet handover & keep the #Internet free.""  The Texas senator has repeatedly slammed the administration's plan to transfer domain-name oversight to the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a global non-profit. Tech companies have supported the plan, and the Commerce Department says it was always envisioned that U.S. oversight of the internet would be temporary.  Cruz and other Republicans have called for the internet transition to be blocked as part of the continuing resolution that keeps the government running beyond Sept. 30.  Hillary Clinton, in her tech policy platform, says she supports the transition as a ""critical step towards safeguarding the internet’s openness for future generations."""	9/21/16	link	mostly true		8	80	4862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847662691680	"'West Wing' cast members to stump for Clinton By BRENT GRIFFITHS 09/21/16 05:11 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Former ""West Wing"" cast members will stump for Hillary Clinton in Ohio this weekend.  Richard Schiff (Toby Ziegler), Allison Janney (C.J. Cregg), Bradley Whitford (Josh Lyman), Dulé Hill (Charlie Young), Joshua Malina (Will Bailey) and Mary McCormack (Kate Harper) will participate. The cast reunion and campaign events will include appearances in Cleveland, Sandusky, Toledo, Columbus and elsewhere.  ""The West Wing,"" an accounting of the White House under fictional President Josiah Bartlet (Martin Sheen), has been off the air for a decade. The show was created by Aaron Sorkin and netted 26 prime-time Emmy Awards during its run.  Since the show ended, some cast members have touted their role in inspiring viewers to pursue a career in politics. In an interview on NBC’s ""Today"" show, Schiff recalled meeting fans of the show who, at the time, were staffers for Sen. Barack Obama."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		423	4139	19562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847735766680	"Yellen helps Clinton dodge a bullet Federal Reserve policymakers keep their key interest rate steady, putting the central bank on the sidelines until after Election Day. By BEN WHITE 09/21/16 05:23 PM EDT Janet Yellen is pictured. | AP Photo Fed Chair Janet Yellen strongly rejected claims lobbed at her by GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump that she is keeping rates artificially low to boost stock prices and aid Democrats. | AP Photo  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD Scratch one big economic worry off the list for Hillary Clinton.  Federal Reserve policymakers on Wednesday kept their key interest rate steady, avoiding a potential stock market disruption and putting the central bank on the sidelines until after Election Day.  Fed Chair Janet Yellen also strongly rejected claims lobbed at her by GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump that she is keeping rates artificially low to boost stock prices and aid Democrats.  “I can say emphatically that partisan politics plays no role in our decisions about the appropriate stance of monetary policy,” Yellen said at a news conference after the Fed announced its decision. “We do not discuss politics at our meetings and we do not take politics into account in our decisions.”  Nonetheless, the Fed’s actions can have significant political consequences.  The Federal Open Market Committee’s decision means voters are not likely to see big stock-price declines or a slowing economy before the Nov. 8 election. Clinton is counting on slowly improving views of the economy to hold off a late surge from Trump, who has made dissatisfaction with the sluggish pace of growth a centerpiece of his populist campaign. Stocks rose following the Fed’s announcement.  “The Clinton campaign should absolutely breathe a sigh of relief, because the market was just not positioned at all for a rate increase; there would have been total chaos,” said Brett Ewing, chief market strategist at First Franklin Financial Services. “Less drama is clearly good for the incumbent party.”  At her news conference, Yellen said she saw improvement in the U.S. economy but little evidence of risky inflation. And she said holding off on a hike could allow more people to come back into the labor force.  “We are generally pleased with how the U.S. economy is doing,” she said. “The economy has a little more room to run than might have been previously thought, and that’s good news. And remember that inflation continues below 2 percent.”  The move cheered investors who have driven stocks to fresh highs this year in large part fueled by the Fed’s continued easy money policy. Yellen and the Fed also offered reassuring words about the state of the economy while pointing to a possible rate hike in December.  http://images.politico.com/global/2015/04/10/150410_robby_mook_gty_1160.jpg Clinton campaign memo outlines map to victory By GABRIEL DEBENEDETTI  “[T]he labor market has continued to strengthen and growth of economic activity has picked up from the modest pace seen in the first half of this year,” the Fed said in its eagerly awaited statement Wednesday. “The Committee judges that the case for an increase in the federal funds rate has strengthened but decided, for the time being, to wait for further evidence of continued progress toward its objectives.”  The Fed’s decision on Wednesday is not a complete victory for the Clinton campaign.  By declining yet again to raise rates, the world’s most powerful central bank is signaling that it does not believe the U.S. economy is strong enough for even the slightest tightening of monetary policy. The Fed raised rates in December for the first time in nearly a decade. But it has been unwilling to do so again despite an unemployment rate of just 4.9 percent and warnings that inflation could spike in ways that would be difficult for the Fed to control.  The Fed’s target rate is now just 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent, a remarkably low figure this late in an economic recovery that gives the central bank little room to maneuver should a new crisis or recession arise. So the Fed’s move avoids a market meltdown but offers fresh rhetorical evidence for Trump and other Republicans who argue that the economy is extraordinarily weak.  “It’s certainly better for Clinton not to have a negative market reaction, but the story here is also that Fed does not have high confidence in continued improvement in the economy,” said Michael Obuchowski of Merlin Asset Management. “And that’s something Trump can talk about, that the economy is so weak the Fed can’t do anything even though it wants to.”  The Fed also reduced its outlook for economic growth this year to 1.8 percent from 2 percent while keeping projections for 2 percent growth over the next two years unchanged.  Trump has made bashing the Fed a central plank in his presidential campaign, repeatedly blasting Yellen as motivated by a desire to protect Democrats. “She’s obviously political and doing what Obama wants her to do,” Trump said on CNBC earlier this month. “I think she’s very political, and to a certain extent, I think she should be ashamed of herself.”  Trump has also said that as president he would replace Yellen, whose term runs until February 2018. And he has ripped the Fed for creating what he has called a “false economy” with high stock prices but only modest wage gains and a very low labor-force participation rate.  Yellen pushed back hard on the criticism on Wednesday. “The Federal Reserve is not politically compromised,” she said. “I can’t recall any meeting that I have ever attended where politics has been a matter of discussion. I think the public if they had been watching our meeting on TV today would have felt that we had a rich, deep, serious, intellectual debate about the risks and the forecasts for the economy.”  Yellen added that the central bank “struggled mightily with trying to understand each other’s points of view and come out at a balanced place and act responsibly, and that’s my commitment to the American people.”  Still, some Fed governors appear to agree with at least elements of Trump’s critique. Three members of the Fed’s policy-setting committee voted against the latest decision, the largest number in two years. These governors argued for a quarter-point increase.  Some market observers note, however, that investors have already done some of the Fed’s work by pushing up borrowing costs and generally tightening financial conditions without the Fed having to make an official policy move.  “Why does the Fed have to do anything if someone else is already doing the heavy lifting for them?” said David Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. “Why break your back?”  As for 2016, Kotok said the decision should be a bit of a boost for Clinton, more because it avoids a nightmare scenario than does much to strengthen the economy.  “This at least doesn’t hurt her,” he said. “Whether it actually helps is another question.”"	9/21/16	link	mostly true		30	236	5362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847778051680	"Rouhani: Iran deal able to weather the election By YOUSEF SABA 09/21/16 06:41 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Wednesday expressed confidence that the landmark nuclear deal between his country and a group of world powers will be able to weather the volatile U.S. election season.  MSNBC's Chuck Todd asked Rouhani whether he'd rather work with Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump, citing comments they've made on the nuclear deal. Rouhani said, ""Of course, throughout the atmosphere of presidential elections in the United States, candidates can bring up any topic that they see best suits the needs of their campaigns. But the reality remains that when the joint comprehensive plan of action was passed based on the United Nations Security Council resolution 2231, and it was approved unanimously, that became an international agreement.""   Trump has repeatedly criticized the Iran nuclear deal, calling it a ""bad deal"" and previously said he would tear it up. He's also called the Obama administration incompetent over it.  Clinton, on the other hand, has said she would respect the deal, yet be cautious in dealing with Iran, in what's come to be known as her ""distrust and verify"" strategy.  ""No one can say here or there that I don't accept this agreement, I want to renegotiate it. This has purely an electoral effect for some,"" Rouhani said."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		6	55	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847853196680	"Trump acknowledged Obama's birthplace 'to get on with the campaign' By CRISTIANO LIMA 09/21/16 08:47 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump said Wednesday he decided to finally address his ""birther"" controversy ""to get on with the campaign"" and discuss issues like the economy and the threat of terrorism.  Speaking to Ohio's ABC6, the Republican nominee said, ""I just wanted to get on with, I wanted to get on with the campaign. A lot of people were asking me questions. We want to talk about jobs. We want to talk about the military. We want to talk about ISIS and get rid of ISIS. We want to talk about bringing jobs back to this area because you've been decimated so we just wanted to get back on the subject of jobs, military, taking care of our vets, etc.""  The Republican nominee had been pressed to explain why he refused to acknowledge President Barack Obama's birthplace as the United States -- a fact he questioned for years prior to becoming a presidential candidate.  Trump conceded during an announcement last Friday that “President Barack Obama was born in the United States, period.""  ""Now we all want to get back to making America strong and great again,” Trump added."	9/21/16	link	mostly true		43	413	15662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847908561680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	14	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847952481680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		30	174	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153847992896680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		46	340	4662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848028771680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1	13	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848062441680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		31	237	13862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848092426680		9/21/16	link	mostly true		18	69	1962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848119186680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		18	249	4262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848155196680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	61	2862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848177041680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		112	1348	10162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848197001680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		162	878	47762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848234916680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		9	87	3762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848270131680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		74	267	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848587656680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		15	149	9862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848618131680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2795	4539	85162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848652321680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		11	75	5262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848686081680		9/22/16	link	mostly true			59	2262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848716736680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		4	13	262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848739956680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		80	256	7962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848754321680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		9	45	2762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848797731680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		12	54	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848854081680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		120	1917	20162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848902091680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		325	1311	63862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153848950481680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		37	147	12262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849014516680		9/22/16	link	mostly true			14	562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849059696680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		35	283	3562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849098601680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		26	222	3862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849133896680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		48	1078	6762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849170371680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2	36	262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849205376680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		358	941	50562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849242736680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		105	616	38462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849273966680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		84	573	46062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849332736680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		24	601	8762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849403391680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		14	192	9262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849481651680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		26	170	8162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849518081680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		29	465	4162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849562526680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		19	261	13562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849601511680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		22	223	20162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849650971680	"Trump plans post-debate fundraising blitz By ALEX ISENSTADT 09/22/16 01:04 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump is planning a ""national call day"" to Republican donors who've yet to open their wallets, hoping to close a massive fundraising gap between him and Hillary Clinton.  Trump is summoning his top fundraisers to Trump Tower on Tuesday, the day after he squares off with Hillary Clinton in the first presidential debate. The fundraisers are being asked to ""prepare call lists of prospective donors"" and to recruit at least three people from their home states to raise funds on Tuesday, according to a copy of the invitation.  Two people briefed on the event said it would be geared toward attracting the support of Republican contributors who have yet to commit to Trump financially. Many of the party's top donors have expressed profound reservations over Trump's candidacy and have chosen to direct their funds to down-ballot races.  The push comes amid mounting concern that Trump, who has lagged in the fundraising race, is being outspent and out-organized in the states that will determine the election. Hillary Clinton has outspent Trump on the TV airwaves by a stunning 7-to-1 margin and in many battlegrounds has dozens more offices and field staffers than the Republican nominee.  Through the end of August, Clinton has outraised Trump $373 million to $165 million.  Among those still on the sidelines are many of the GOP's biggest donors. Trump suffered a blow this week when Las Vegas casino mogul Sheldon Adelson revealed that he would be directing $40 million to Republican groups devoted to protecting the party's congressional majorities and just $5 million toward electing the GOP presidential nominee. Adelson had once been seen as a potential major Trump donor and seen as possibly giving as much as $100 million to boost his candidacy.  Tuesday's event will be hosted by vice presidential nominee Mike Pence and two of Trump's children, Eric and Ivanka. It is being co-chaired by Republican fundraisers Anthony Scaramucci, a prominent Wall Street investor, and Roy Bailey, a Dallas insurance executive. Bailey has long been close with former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a prominent Trump surrogate and adviser.  In the invitation, the campaign says it will offer four invitations to next week's presidential debate to fundraisers who pull in at least $250,000 by Friday."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		4	84	6462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849686251680	"Robert Kennedy Would Have Hated Donald Trump The GOP candidate is not the man of peace my former colleague makes him out to be. By PETER EDELMAN September 22, 2016 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Writing as a former legislative assistant to Senator Robert F. Kennedy and an enthusiastic supporter of Hillary Clinton for president, I was disappointed to see in Politico the screed written by my former colleague, Adam Walinsky, excoriating Clinton’s record on foreign policy and national security and going on to conclude that Donald Trump should therefore be elected president. It is one thing to disagree with Secretary Clinton, which Walinsky does heatedly, and quite another to turn to Donald Trump.  We should be clear that Walinsky’s critique is not confined to Clinton. He lays out (and massively overstates) a dark view not just of Clinton but also of President Obama and almost the entire Democratic Party. The analysis is overwrought, but even one who buys the argument defies all logic in imagining that the solution is Trump.  The question is not whether there is a military-industrial complex in our country. President Eisenhower called us out on that and there is enough responsibility to go around among both parties for it. The 21st century version begins with the Iraq War, which was originated by a Republican President. I am not interested in adjudicating the issue of which party is the war party except to say that Presidents Obama, Clinton and Carter have stood for peace in important and tangible ways. The question here is whether Donald Trump can claim in any way that he is the candidate who stands for a foreign policy of restraint and the answer is that he cannot.  GettyImages-600031536.jpg 2016 Walinsky: I Was RFK’s Speechwriter. Now I’m Voting for Trump. Here’s Why. By ADAM WALINSKY Walinsky finds in Trump a rationality and consistency that do not exist. Any reasonable observer of the presidential campaign has seen that at one moment, Trump will represent himself as an isolationist who wants to end ties with NATO and other allies; at another, he will lash out at any perceived insult to the U.S. or to himself, and pledges that America’s pride needs to be vindicated militarily. “America First,” Trump says regularly, bringing the isolationism of Charles Lindbergh to mind—before excoriating President Obama for not using greater force in any number of venues and then insinuating that he has a secret plan to obliterate the Islamic State.  To compare John F. Kennedy and Robert F. Kennedy to Donald Trump is—well, I won’t finish the sentence. Yes, Robert Kennedy turned against the Vietnam War, but not because he felt that America should retreat from the world. He opposed the war because it was unjust and was based on a flawed notion of American interests. The result, as we know, was the death of Vietnamese and Americans and others who should not have died. JFK and RFK were internationalists. They understood that World War II left the United States with a responsibility to play an active and constructive role in the world. They understood that America must stand together and dependably with allies who also are committed to pursue a peaceful world. They understood that the use of force was sometimes necessary and that brave men and women would be put at risk. They made those difficult, often excruciating, decisions carefully and as transparently as possible, never rashly, impulsively, or vindictively.  Walinsky quotes Robert Kennedy’s statement that if any member of the ExComm other than John F. Kennedy had been president during the Cuban Missile Crisis, we would have had a nuclear war. Ask yourself what a President Trump might have done in that moment. “Restraint” is not the word that comes to mind.  This is a man who said he would order the military to kill the families of Muslim terrorists and use interrogation techniques worse than waterboarding and opined that the United States should have seized Iraq’s oil resources as “spoils to the victor.”  Lead_Getty.jpg HISTORY DEPT. The Most Trusted White Man in Black America By LARRY TYE GettyImages-591710830.jpg HISTORY DEPT. How Clinton's 'Trump Is Crazy’ Strategy Could Backfire By JOSH ZEITZ Trump angry WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD What Exactly Would It Mean to Have Trump’s Finger on the Nuclear Button? By BRUCE BLAIR Yes, we have put too much power in the hands of militarists and profit seekers in both the public and private sectors. But electing Donald Trump is not the answer; it would only compound the problem in new and dangerous ways. The answer is an active citizenry that speaks out against the inappropriate use of force and opposes interference in conflicts that involve neither American security interests nor egregious human rights violations—a topic in which Donald Trump has shown an ostentatious indifference, as his fondness for Vladimir Putin reflects.  All the evidence, provided again and again by Donald Trump’s own mouth, tells us not that he is a man of peace, but that he is a man of no principle—a man who will say, and possibly do, whatever happens to cross his mind at a given minute. He is like the weather in New England: If you don’t like it, wait a minute. We do not know what he believes because he does not know what he believes. We do not know what he knows because, from all we can see, he does not know much.  Even if Walinsky’s diatribe is correct, which it most certainly is not in its breadth and depth, there is nothing in it that justifies turning to Donald Trump. Of all occasions to break ranks with the Democratic Party, this is the most inappropriate. Of all the ways to misappropriate the memory of John and Robert Kennedy, two of our greatest public servants, this is the most egregious I have ever seen.  To say that I am disappointed by what Walinsky has done is an understatement. America, in this election, faces an existential question—and history will judge us by our answer. Walinsky has chosen the wrong side of the struggle.  Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Peter Edelman is the Carmack Waterhouse professor of law and public policy at Georgetown University Law Center."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		285	2361	25662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849741571680	"NYPD 'looking into' Weiner communication with teen By AZI PAYBARAH 09/22/16 02:55 PM EDT Updated 09/22/16 05:13 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter A spokesperson for the New York Police Department said “detectives are looking into” a report that former congressman Anthony Weiner traded sexually explicit messages with a girl who identified herself as a 15-year-old high school student.  The exchange was first reported by the Daily Mail yesterday, which withheld the name of the girl because she is a minor.  Later Thursday, CNN reported that U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara's office has subpoenaed Weiner for his cell phone and other records.  Weiner yesterday referred reporters to a statement he had given the Daily Mail, saying he regretted his online conversations but pointing to a letter the girl wrote calling the incident “a hoax.” The girl later recanted that characterization, and shared with the Daily Mail a series of images and messages she said she traded with Weiner up until July.  Weiner’s 2013 mayoral campaign was rocked by revelations that he had traded sexually explicit messages with a woman after he had resigned from office in 2011. Weiner's resignation was prompted by an exchange with another woman that he accidentally posted to his public Twitter feed.  Mayor Bill de Blasio today said today the situation is ""horrible.""  ""I've known Anthony over the years, but I know Huma much better, having served side by side with her during the 2000 Senate campaign,"" said de Blasio, who managed Hillary Clinton's campaign for the U.S. Senate that year. ""I think the world of Huma. I just feel horrible for her and her son that they're going through this. It's not a secret, Anthony obviously has a real problem that needs treatment, and all I can say is I hope he will pursue the treatment he needs and stick with it until his issues are addressed.""  Yesterday, Governor Andrew Cuomo said if the report is true, it is ""sick"" and potentially ""criminal."""	9/22/16	link	mostly true		6	56	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849773271680	"McConnell plays hardball in spending fight By SEUNG MIN KIM and BEN WEYL 09/22/16 01:58 PM EDT Updated 09/22/16 04:26 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Mitch McConnell is playing hardball — forcing Democrats into a take-it-or-leave-it position on a must-pass government spending bill before funding runs dry at the end of the month.  With spending negotiations still stymied at the Capitol, McConnell filed a new short-term government spending measure Thursday that concedes key priorities to Democrats — yet still isn’t enough to get the minority party on board.  Gone is the so-called ICANN provision, an internet-domain issue that had become a top priority for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and other GOP senators and just got the seal of endorsement from GOP nominee Donald Trump. It also includes some funding for a sweeping opioids bill that was signed into law earlier this year, as well as a landmark chemical safety measure that became law in June.  The new spending measure McConnell filed Thursday — which funds the government until Dec. 9 — also includes language already worked out between Democrats and Republicans to deal with additional funding for the Zika virus epidemic. A procedural vote on the measure is slated for Tuesday afternoon, and McConnell used a parliamentary maneuver to block amendments to the bill, ensuring that the legislation he outlined was essentially the only option.  Pat Toomey is pictured. | AP Photo CONGRESS GOP senators succumb to Trump’s war on trade By SEUNG MIN KIM “There have been broad requests for a clean continuing resolution. So that’s what I’ve just offered,” McConnell said. “It’s the result of many, many hours of bipartisan work across the aisle.”  But Democrats, who have little incentive to agree quickly to a deal that lets vulnerable Republicans leave Washington, say they object to the legislation because while it includes flood aid for states such as Louisiana, West Virginia and Maryland, it doesn’t include money for the long-running water crisis in Flint, Michigan.  “To put Louisiana in without Flint is like waving a red flag. I don't get it,"" said New York Sen. Chuck Schumer, the third-ranking Senate Democrat. ""I haven’t counted votes but our caucus isn’t going to like having Louisiana and not Michigan.""  It also does not remove language that prohibits the Securities and Exchange Commission from requiring companies to disclose political spending. That is current law, but Democrats have tried to overturn it during the recent negotiations. Democrats also floated a provision related to the Export-Import Bank that would have restored the bank’s full financing authority, but that was not included in the spending measure McConnell filed Thursday. That Ex-Im provision was also important for some Republicans; South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said he would vote against the short-term funding bill because that language was excluded.  “The president does not believe that a short-term budget measure that only exists because Congress hasn’t done their job in the first place should be used to pass ideological riders into law,” White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said Thursday, while slamming Republicans for their opposition to the Ex-Im Bank.  Yet McConnell's proposal is also starting to drive a rift through Democrats. While some leading Senate Democrats stood firm in opposing the new funding measure, other Democrats began to side with Republicans. Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson, whose home state of Florida has been the nation's epicenter of the Zika crisis, said he would vote in favor of the new continuing resolution because it sets aside $1.1 billion to combat Zika ""with no political riders.""  ""While I support the people of Flint, my priority is the people of Florida,"" Nelson said.  162009-john-thune-getty-1160 Senate advances budget deal that doesn't exist yet By BEN WEYL, SEUNG MIN KIM and BURGESS EVERETT Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) signaled his displeasure with the bill shortly before McConnell went to the floor to unveil it Thursday afternoon.  “We’re in no hurry to go anyplace, OK? We have all a lot of time,” Reid told reporters. “I’ve talked with [House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi], she’s not going to agree to this. The president is not going to agree to this. It’s really unfair to the American people.”  During her weekly news conference earlier Thursday, Pelosi said the legislation, “in my view, is not even worthy of a counter. It falls very short.”  Maryland Sen. Barbara Mikulski, the top Democratic appropriator, charged McConnell with filing a “Republican-only bill"" and said Democrats would not support the legislation, although details of the measure were still emerging and some senators had yet to review it.  House Speaker Paul Ryan, for his part, is trying to project an air of calm, telling reporters that lawmakers in his chamber want ""low drama"" in order to solve the government funding impasse. But Cruz is pressuring House lawmakers to fight on behalf of the Internet domain provision that he championed.  ""I am grateful for my Senate colleagues' vigorous support during this debate,"" Cruz said in a statement. ""I encourage my colleagues in the House to continue to stand united to ensure that the government funding bill prevents the Obama administration from permanently undermining free speech on the Internet.""  Heather Caygle, Louis Nelson, Burgess Everett and Ashley Gold contributed to this report."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		4	36	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849803586680	"Trump blames 'drugs' for Charlotte unrest The candidate’s planned outreach to black voters hit a snag when he went off script to suggest drugs were fueling chaotic protests after a police shooting. By ELI STOKOLS 09/22/16 02:19 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter PITTSBURGH — Attempting to strike a unifying, presidential tone while commenting Thursday about urban unrest in Charlotte, Donald Trump veered temporarily off-script and attributed the violence — without offering any evidence — to drugs.  ""If you're not aware, drugs are a very, very big factor in what you're watching on television,"" he said.  Following a night of wall-to-wall cable coverage of the violent protests in response to another police shooting of an African-American man, the Republican presidential nominee aimed to square his law-and-order philosophy with his eleventh-hour outreach efforts to the country's African-American communities.  Trump, who trails Hillary Clinton by approximately 80 percent points among African-American voters, explained that his promise to restore order to cities plagued by racial tensions is an effort to protect disproportionately affected minority communities.  ""There is no compassion in tolerating lawless conduct. Crime and violence is an attack on the poor, and will never be accepted in a Trump Administration,"" he said at the beginning of remarks to the Shale Insight Convention.  ""Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the violent disrupter, but to make life more comfortable for the African-American parent trying to raise their kids in peace, to walk their children to school and to get their children a great education. We have to cherish and protect those people.""  Trump's stated concern is of a piece with his recent visits to African-American churches in Detroit and Flint and his stumping in Ohio Wednesday with boxing promoter Don King, who vouched for the candidate's character.  But his ad-libbed comment blaming drugs for these violent uprisings seemed to validate stereotypes about black communities — seemingly supporting the criticism that Trump's larger outreach effort to African-American voters is really an attempt to convince moderate Republican women that he isn't a racist.  As he often does, Trump praised police officers for risking their lives but acknowledged, as he did on Wednesday, that their judgment in pressure situations is not infallible.  ""Police are entrusted with immense responsibility, and we must do everything we can to ensure they are properly trained, that they respect all members of the public, and that any wrongdoing is always vigorously addressed,"" Trump said.  ""But our men and women in blue also need our support, our thanks, and our gratitude. They are the line separating civilization from total chaos."""	9/22/16	link	mostly true		294	860	36962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849837396680	"Trump campaign chair in Ohio county resigns after making racially charged comments By YOUSEF SABA 09/22/16 01:28 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Kathy Miller, the chair of Trump's campaign in Mahoning County, Ohio, resigned Thursday, according to a statement from the Trump Ohio campaign. The resignation comes after Miller made racially charged remarks to The Guardian.  On Thursday morning, Miller said that there was ""no racism"" before Obama. She made the inflammatory comments to The Guardian's Anywhere but Washington series, when she said, ""If you’re black and you haven’t been successful in the last 50 years, it’s your own fault. You’ve had every opportunity, it was given to you.""  She further charged, “You’ve had the same schools everybody else went to. You had benefits to go to college that white kids didn’t have. You had all the advantages and didn’t take advantage of it. It’s not our fault, certainly.”  The Ohio campaign statement read, ""Our county chairs are volunteers who signed up to help organize grassroots outreach like door-knocking and phone calls, they are not spokespeople for the campaign. I have accepted Kathy Miller's resignation as the Mahoning County chair in light of these inappropriate comments.""  Miller also referred to the Black Lives Matter movement as ""a stupid waste of time"" and suggested lower voter turnout among blacks has to do with ""the way they were raised.""  The Ohio campaign statement included what it said was a statement from Miller apologizing for her comments, saying they were inappropriate and that she is not a campaign spokesperson, and was not speaking on its behalf.  Tracy Winbush will replace Miller as Mahoning County campaign chair, according to the statement. She will also be the elector for the electoral college."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		340	1109	21962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849865081680	"Donald Trump Jr. defends Skittles tweet: 'I’m not comparing someone to candy' By YOUSEF SABA 09/22/16 02:32 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump Jr. defended comparing the candy Skittles to Syrian refugees Thursday, saying he was surprised by the reaction his tweet caused and explained he was simply making a metaphor ""for risk and probability.""  “We have to be careful about those things,” he said in video posted to social media by CNN.  When asked if he’s concerned about being a distraction for the campaign, he said, “I’m not trying to be a distraction, I’m trying to point out things that have to be said, I think,”  ""People will today make what they want of anything, and they see the worse in everything, and they look for a subtext that doesn’t exist,” he said from a campaign stop in Boise, adding, “For me, you know, I guess I’m a straightforward guy. You know? I don’t deal in micro-aggressions where it takes a special kind of person to find whatever message they’re looking for.”  He further defended his controversial remarks by saying, “If a metaphor offends someone, I can understand that and maybe that’s the world we live in today, but I’m not comparing someone to candy, I’m using it as a – it’s a statistical thing. We have to be careful who let into this country. You’ve seen what’s going on in Europe – and this is not just about terrorists, it’s about the rape statistics that have gone on there.”  On Monday, Trump, Jr. tweeted a photo of a bowl of skittles captioned, “If I had a bowl of skittles and told you three would kill you. Would you take a handful? That’s our Syrian refugee problem.”  A large social media backlash ensued, and he was heavily criticized for likening refugees to the fruit candy. Skittles parent company Wrigley also denounced the tweet."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		67	637	50562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849909631680	"After Trump remarks, Lynch airs concerns on stop-and-frisk By JOSH GERSTEIN 09/22/16 02:36 PM EDT Updated 09/22/16 04:09 PM EDT Attorney General Loretta Lynch publicly questioned the wisdom of broad-based stop-and-frisk policies as a crime-fighting tool Thursday, in the wake of comments from Donald Trump urging use of the technique to cut down on gun violence.  Asked about her views on the practice, Lynch said she would not be drawn into debate about comments made by political candidates, but she clearly disagreed with the GOP presidential nominee by insisting that the use of the tactic had been counterproductive in New York City.  ""In New York … that practice was implemented in a way that was not helpful to community trust and to, frankly, public safety and enhancing the relationship between law enforcement and community members,"" Lynch said in response to question from POLITICO at a press conference about a crackdown on mail-fraud schemes.  ""The issue with stop-and-frisk in the New York area was the widespread indiscriminate use of that practice, particularly when it was not generating success from a law enforcement perspective, in either leads or tips or firearms, and the resulting lack of trust that it generated,"" the attorney general said.  In an interview Wednesday, Trump called for broader use of stop-and-frisk and specifically praised its success in combating crime in New York.  ""I see what's going on here, I see what's going on in Chicago,"" Trump said in Cleveland during a taping of Fox News' ""Hannity "" ""I think stop-and-frisk, in New York City, it was so incredible the way it worked. And, we had a very good mayor. But New York City was incredible the way that worked. So, I think that would be one step you could do.""  Use of the proactive technique, promoted by former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, has long angered many civil rights activists. In 2013, a judge in New York ruled that it had been carried out in an unconstitutional, racially discriminatory manner. An appeals court halted that ruling, but while the appeal was pending, the city — under new Mayor Bill de Blasio —wound up settling the case.  In comments Thursday, Trump revised his earlier remarks, insisting he was only advocating the practice in murder-plagued Chicago.  “I was really referring to Chicago with stop-and-frisk,” he told “Fox and Friends” during a phone interview Thursday morning. “They asked me about Chicago and I was talking about stop-and-frisk for Chicago.”  Chicago has seen a spike in murders and shootings, with over 500 killings in 2016 and three months still to go in the year.  ""I think Chicago needs stop-and-frisk,” Trump said. “Now, people can criticize me for that or people can say whatever they want, but they asked me about Chicago, and I think stop-and-frisk, with good, strong, you know, good, strong law and order. But you have to do something. It can’t continue the way it’s going.”  Lynch, who spent two stints as chief federal prosecutor in Brooklyn before being nominated as attorney general, said she wasn't opposed to stop-and-frisk techniques under certain circumstances.  ""As with every police procedure we want to empower law enforcement to be responsive to community needs. We want to empower them to protect the community. We want to give them the training they need in order to do it in a way that is constitutional, safe and effective and promotes trust,"" Lynch said. ""It’s not really a yes or no answer.""  UPDATE (Thursday, 4:09 p.m.): This post has been updated to clarify the outcome of the New York City stop-and-frisk litigation."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		36	307	8962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849954976680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	159	19162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153849988486680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		17	39	1262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850022861680	"Obama jokes: Morgan Freeman 'off playing a black president again' By LOUIS NELSON 09/22/16 03:19 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter President Barack Obama joked Thursday that actor Morgan Freeman couldn’t make it to a White House ceremony for National Medals of the Arts and Humanities recipients because he “undoubtedly is off playing a black president again.”  “He never lets me have my moment,” the president added once the laughter subsided.   Obama also quipped that Thursday’s medal recipients included NPR host Terry Gross “and a whole bunch of people who Terry Gross has interviewed.” Legendary comedy writer and director Mel Brooks got top billing at the ceremony, which also honored chef Jose Andres, jazz musician Wynton Marsalis and author Sandra Cisneros, among others.  “As Mel Brooks once said to his writers on 'Blazing Saddles,' which is a great film, ‘Write anything you want because we’ll never be heard from again. We will all be arrested for this movie,’” the president said in his introductory remarks.  “Now to be fair, Mel also said, a little more eloquently, that every human being has hundreds of separate people living inside his skin and the talent of a writer is his ability to give them their separate names, identities, personalities and have them relate to other characters living within him,” Obama continued. “And that I think, is [what] the arts and humanities do: They lift up our identities and make us see ourselves in each other.”"	9/22/16	link	mostly true		15	263	2262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850040286680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	171	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850053451680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		32	249	18262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850066671680	"Pence: There's too much talk of police department 'racism' By MATTHEW NUSSBAUM 09/22/16 03:45 PM EDT Updated 09/22/16 04:33 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Mike Pence said there is too much talk of ""institutional racism and institutional bias"" in the wake of unrest following police shootings in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Charlotte, North Carolina.  ""Police officers are human beings,"" Pence said at a pastors' roundtable at Radiant Church here. ""And in difficult and life-threatening situations, mistakes are made and people have to be held to strict account, but we both believe that it's important that we have a president who, as the chief law enforcement officer of the United States, stands behind the men and women who serve in law enforcement.""  Pence said that police officers are ""the best of us.""  ""We ought to set aside this talk, this talk about institutional racism and institutional bias,"" he said, calling such assertions ""rhetoric of division.""  Asked by Bishop John Brannon, who is African-American, what Pence would ""personally do"" to heal divides in the country, Pence brought up the recent shootings.  Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.), Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.), Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and Cedric Richmond (D-La.), along with other members of the Congressional Black Caucus, hold a news conference after marching to the Department of Justice on Thursday. Black Caucus marches to DOJ to protest shootings By HEATHER CAYGLE and JOHN BRESNAHAN ""When there's any loss of life, we have to speak with compassion, we have to make it clear that there will be a thorough investigation and that justice will be served and that high standards will be upheld,"" Pence said.  Pence sought to strike a tone of unity in his remarks, repeating that ""there will always be more that unites us in this country than could ever divide us.""  At a town hall event shortly after the pastors roundtable, Pence used the same line — that there is too much talk of ""institutional racism"" — to take aim at Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.  ""But in the wake of these tragic events in Tulsa and Charlotte, sadly our opponent once again refers to what she calls the institutional racism in law enforcement,"" Pence said. ""We heard this week again of the 'systemic racism' in law enforcement in this country.""  Pence said people expect a ""thorough, immediate and transparent investigation"" in the wake of police shootings.  Pence went on to say that police are ""not a force for racism in America, they are a force for good, they stand for our families, they protect our homes and they deserve our support and respect.""  He also said he respected protesters' constitutional right to assemble, but added ""there is no right to engage in violence against our citizens or against our property.""  Trump expressed his own concern about the Tulsa shooting on Wednesday, suggesting the shooting happened because the officer in question was “choking” under pressure."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		91	503	25162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850080306680	"Swing-state polls: Trump leads in Iowa, narrows the gap in Colorado and Virginia By LOUIS NELSON 09/22/16 04:12 PM EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Donald Trump has taken the lead over Hillary Clinton in Iowa and narrowed the former secretary of state’s advantage in Colorado and Virginia, a new Quinnipiac University poll shows.  The Quinnipiac poll of likely voters in the four swing states, released Thursday, asked respondents about a four-way presidential race that also includes Libertarian Gary Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein.  Trump, who trailed Clinton by 2 points in Iowa in an August Quinnipiac poll, now leads by 7 points, 44 percent to 37 percent. He also leads in Georgia, where likely voters also preferred him by a 7-point margin, 47 percent to 40 percent. Stein earned the support of 2 percent of respondents in Iowa and did not register any support in Georgia, while Johnson polled at 10 percent and 9 percent, respectively.  Both the Clinton campaign and Priorities USA, a super PAC backing the former secretary of state, stopped airing advertisements for her in both Virginia and Colorado over the summer amid a seemingly insurmountable polling advantage. But the fresh Quinnipiac poll shows that advantage narrowed in both states.  In Colorado, Clinton’s lead has shrunk from 8 points in mid-August to just 2 points in the most recent poll, 44 percent to 42 percent, with Johnson polling at 10 percent and Stein at 2 percent. Clinton's lead in Colorado falls within the poll’s margin of error, putting the two candidates in a statistical tie in the state.  A collection of Trump's national ads 2016 Trump's bizarre ad strategy By STEVEN SHEPARD In Virginia, the 9-point advantage Clinton held over Trump last month has shrunk to 6 points, 45 percent to 39 percent, in the poll released Thursday. Johnson earned the support of 8 percent of respondents from Virginia while Stein polled at 1 percent there.  The new polls are the latest in an array of positive swing-state news for the Manhattan billionaire, who has polled well in purple states of late. A Fox News poll out Wednesday showed Trump with leads in Ohio, North Carolina and Nevada and a Suffolk University poll released earlier in the day Thursday put Trump narrowly ahead of Clinton.  The news has been better for the former secretary of state in nationwide polls. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Wednesday afternoon put Clinton ahead of Trump by 6 points among likely voters across the country. But even if likely voters nationwide prefer Clinton, Trump could still carve a path to the White House with wins in key swing states.  The Quinnipiac University poll was conducted from Sept. 13-21 via landlines and cellphones. It reached 644 likely Colorado voters and 638 Georgians likely to vote, both with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.9 points. The poll also reached 612 Iowans, with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 4 points, and 659 likely Virginia voters, with a with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.9 points.  "	9/22/16	link	mostly true		17	285	10662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850099196680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		5	31	2162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850142316680	"Republicans see new hope for Trump in North Carolina Republicans are hoping his law-and-order message will resonate during the unrest in Charlotte. By KATIE GLUECK 09/22/16 06:20 PM EDT 160922_charlotte_1_gty_1160.jpg Police officers face off with protesters on the I-85 during protests in the early hours of September 21 in Charlotte, North Carolina. | Getty  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD North Carolina Republicans are lamenting the unrest gripping their state’s largest city, but, quietly, they also see it as an opportunity for Donald Trump to gain ground in a critical swing state.  And they’re asking him to take advantage of it.  “North Carolina Republicans are sending the word to the Trump campaign that once this settles down, a visit to Charlotte, to the Mecklenburg police, to the sheriff and others, is something we really want to see,” said a high-ranking North Carolina Republican, granted anonymity to discuss political calculations during a sensitive moment for the state. “Lawmakers and party officials are sending word to the Trump campaign.”  The crisis in Charlotte was sparked by the shooting of Keith Lamont Scott, an African-American man who police say was armed, though no video has been released and the family disputes that claim. Since then, the city has been the scene of violent clashes between police and protesters, with the clashes captured on live, national television.  The tumult comes as Hillary Clinton’s once-formidable lead in state polls has faded. A spate of polls out this week show either a tied race or give Trump a slight edge—a sharp contrast from last month, when Clinton was leading by anywhere from 2 to 9 percentage points.  Donald Trump comments on Charlotte Trump hints Obama to blame for Charlotte unrest By NOLAN D. MCCASKILL and LOUIS NELSON North Carolina political operatives are skeptical that, unless the chaos in Charlotte continues for weeks, the issue will make a substantial dent in the race. But Republicans and some Democrats do say that the dynamic creates an opening for Trump to further shore up and energize the GOP base—something he has struggled to do—predicting voters will respond to his campaign’s law-and-order message and his staunch defense of police, even amid national concerns over institutional police racism. A senior adviser to the Trump campaign said only that Trump had been in the state earlier this week and ""we have not yet announced the date of our next trip back to the state.""  “I certainly think unrest feeds into Trump’s narrative that ‘America’s falling apart, we need to make America great again,’” said Tom Jensen, a Democratic pollster whose firm is based in North Carolina. “My sense is, most white North Carolinians who would be really repulsed by what’s going on in Charlotte would be in Trump’s camp. I doubt it moves the needle a lot, but the race is just about tied … something like that is never going to move the race by 3 or 4 points, but it can change the race on the margins, and we’re on the margins.”  Thus far, Clinton has largely stuck to tweeting in support of Scott, rather than commenting on the Wednesday night protests. And Trump was vague in a Fox News appearance Thursday morning, lamenting the “lack of spirit between the white and the black,” and going on to assert that amid the chaos “our country looks bad to the world” in a speech later in the day.  But moving the needle even a little may be enough in a state where the polls are tight and there’s a history of thin margins.  North Carolina, a typically red state that went for Barack Obama in 2008 before swinging back to support Mitt Romney in 2012, is central to Trump’s path to victory, which is narrower than Clinton’s is. Clinton’s summer leads in the state were fueled by support from African-American and college-educated voters in a state that is home to the Research Triangle, the Raleigh-Durham area where universities and high-tech companies are based.  But in North Carolina, as in a number of other swing states, her lead has diminished amid scrutiny of her email practices, her health and her overall commitment to transparency. And the protests, Republicans say, may mean more trouble, especially if there are additional nights of strife.  “Every time there is a riot, protest, or general disruption of civility it helps Donald Trump,” said Chris Wilson, a Republican pollster who was the director of data, analytics and digital strategy on Ted Cruz’s primary campaign.  The Cruz primary campaign had firsthand experience with this: Protests at a Chicago Trump rally ahead of the March 15 primaries—when a list of states that included North Carolina voted—dominated the weekend coverage before those races. Wilson said the net effect was boosting Trump across the board in the final days before the Republican contests (though representatives from Sen. Marco Rubio's campaign, also watching their own internal numbers, have said they didn’t see the same effect).  “We certainly saw this in the primaries as the riots [in] Chicago, prior to a scheduled Trump speech, created a significant lift for Trump’s candidacy,” Wilson said. “Not just in Illinois, but also in Missouri and North Carolina.”  The unrest also carries risks for Trump, as the charged racial questions surrounding the issue heighten the possibility of a misstatement, one that could undo a recent effort to fight charges that he’s a racist candidate. That is a risk for the bombastic Trump, who has a record of horrifying moderate voters in the wake of tragedies (“Appreciate the congrats for being right on radical Islamic terrorism,” he tweeted, following a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, though he said he didn’t want the “congrats”).  Police and protesters carry a seriously wounded protester into the parking area of the the Omni Hotel during a march to protest the death of Keith Scott September 21. McCrory calls state of emergency in Charlotte after unrest By CRISTIANO LIMA And the Charlotte situation carries opportunities for Clinton as well. African-Americans, a crucial part of her base, have been outraged by the shooting, the latest instance of a black man dying in an altercation with police (in this instance, the police officer involved was also African-American).  Clinton has been a champion of “Mothers of the Movement,” a group of African-American mothers whose children died primarily in incidents involving law enforcement, and she is a vocal proponent of criminal justice reform. In North Carolina and nationally, her campaign is engaged in extensive outreach to the African-American community.  A senior Democratic operative working in North Carolina said the incidents unfolding in Charlotte underscore the risks African-Americans see in a potential President Trump.  “It is further alienation, a further concern among African-American voters about Trump’s presidency,” the source said, noting that Trump has a long record of making incendiary comments about minorities.  The strategist said Trump’s best-case scenario, politically, is that calls for law and order help him solidify his base—but that doesn’t move the dial with independent and more moderate voters, the source insisted.  “I think Donald Trump continues to solidify his 43 percent of the vote, he’s not adding votes, he’s certainly alienating others,” the Democrat said, going on to add, “It just confirms to his base all the things they’re concerned about are real. But shoring up 43 percent of the vote you have is not the way to get to 50.”  And Carter Wrenn, a longtime Republican strategist, said it is not a given that Trump’s standing will rise on the other side of the aisle just because of the protests.  “If you’re living in North Carolina, you turn on the TV and there’s riots in Charlotte, there’s looting, it gets your attention, but it doesn’t automatically help one candidate over another,” he said. “It depends on how the individual candidate responds. People will watch that. If they think, ‘Gosh, Trump’s got a lot of judgment, he knows how to solve this,' it will help him. If they think, ‘Old Trump just poured gas on the fire,’ it won’t help him at all.”"	9/22/16	link	mostly true		77	514	14662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850164546680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		20	126	1262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850194391680	"Trump received $1.6 million from Secret Service The agency pays to travel with all presidential nominees, but in Trump’s case, that money went to one of his companies. By ISAAC ARNSDORF and KENNETH P. VOGEL 09/22/16 07:11 PM EDT 162209-trump-secret-service-getty-1160 “The taxpayers are actually reimbursing Trump for the travel of the Secret Service agents,"" a campaign finance lawyer said. | Getty  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD Donald Trump's campaign isn't alone in patronizing his own businesses: taxpayers are indirectly doing so, too.  Federal Election Commission records show that the U.S. Secret Service has paid the Trump campaign about $1.6 million to cover the cost of flying its agents with the candidate on a plane owned and operated by one of his companies.  It’s standard practice for the agency — which is tasked with protecting presidential candidates as well as presidents and other federal officials — to reimburse presidential campaigns for the cost of traveling with the candidates.  In fact, the Secret Service has reimbursed the Clinton campaign, too: $2.6 million so far this cycle.  The difference with Trump is that one of his companies, TAG Air, Inc., owns the plane, so the government is effectively paying him.  The Clinton campaign, by contrast, mostly has been chartering planes from a private company called Executive Fliteways in which the Clintons do not have any ownership interest.  “The taxpayers are actually reimbursing Trump for the travel of the Secret Service agents,"" said Brett Kappel, a campaign finance lawyer at the law firm Akerman LLP. ""It's just another example of how the Trump campaign has taken an unprecedentedly large amount of its money and spent it at Trump-owned facilities.""  16091_trump_family_1_ap_1160.jpg 2016 Trump's campaign paid his businesses $8.2 million By KENNETH P. VOGEL and ISAAC ARNSDORF Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks responded to questions about the Secret Service payments by saying “everything was done in accordance with FEC guidelines and regulations. Please direct further questions to USSS.”  Secret Service spokeswoman Nicole Mainor said the FEC “specifically requires security personnel such as the Secret Service to reimburse campaigns for seats” on charter aircraft.  A POLITICO analysis of FEC records found that, through the end of August, Trump’s campaign has spent at least $8.2 million at Trump's own businesses, including to hold events at his hotels, buy food from his restaurants and rent office space for its headquarters in his Manhattan office tower.  But the biggest chunk of the expenses, almost $6 million, were to TAG Air, Inc.  Trump, who once said “I could be the first presidential candidate to run and make money on it,” has attracted criticism for mixing business and politics to an unprecedented degree. He has made a point of highlighting his properties on the campaign trail, leading opponents to accuse him of using his presidential bid to promote his brand and line his pockets.  The campaign in a statement on Thursday rejected that criticism as “misleading and flat out wrong,” pointing out that the amount the campaign spent at Trump's businesses is far less than the $54 million of his own money that Trump has pumped into the campaign.  The statement explained the campaign’s payments to TAG Air and other Trump-owned companies by saying “the campaign has used known quantities as far as event space, air travel and accommodations, and has fulfilled all FEC requirements throughout the campaign.”  Donald Trump makes a visit to Stamey's Barbecue on Sept. 20 in Greensboro, North Carolina. Trump forces lagged Clinton in August money race By ISAAC ARNSDORF and KENNETH P. VOGEL The government's practice of reimbursing campaigns for costs incurred by their Secret Service details dates from an era when campaigns were lower-budget affairs, the logic being candidates shouldn't have to use their own resources on required security, according to Craig Engle, a political lawyer at Arent Fox who helped draft the provision as a staffer at the Federal Election Commission.  ""It's basically just calling it even,"" Engle said. ""It's either Trump making a contribution to the U.S. government, or the U.S. government reimburses the Trump campaign for its expenses.""  The same rationale applies to journalists who travel with the presidential candidates. The journalists or their employers reimburse the campaigns for travel costs. So it’s conceivable that media outlets might end up paying the Trump campaign for the cost of staying in a Trump-owned hotel or flying on a Trump-owned plane.  The Secret Service could also end up paying Trump's hotels to put up his agents when the candidate stays there. But those expenses don't appear in FEC reports because the government pays them directly.  The agency paid the Trump campaign an additional $724,000 for air travel that was refunded, according to the FEC reports, which do not offer an explanation for the refund.  Of course, Trump also travels on the campaign trail with his own robust private security detail. In August, Trump’s campaign spent $232,800 on security-related costs, including payments to private companies such as Xmark LLC, Black Tie Protection Services and KS Global Group, as well as local police in places he visited."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		1295	2700	43162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850227336680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	65	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850254316680	"Obama, in an awkward twist, becomes Saudi Arabia's defender Long a critic, the president now finds himself in the uncomfortable spot of protecting the austere desert monarchy from Congress. By NAHAL TOOSI 09/22/16 05:58 PM EDT 160922_obama_saudi_ap_1160.jpg President Barack Obama pauses to greet people on the tarmac at King Khalid International Airport in Saudi Arabia on April 21. | AP Photo  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD President Barack Obama has never had a great relationship with Saudi Arabia.  Now, he’s the last man standing between the wealthy desert kingdom and billions of dollars in potential liabilities.  Obama has cast the Saudis as ""so-called"" allies; bemoaned the terrorist-inspiring version of Islam they practice; and even suggested the oil-rich Arab state learn to ""share"" the Middle East with rival Iran. The Saudis, meanwhile, consider Obama naive, sparring with him over the Iran nuclear deal and questioning his hands-off approach to Syria’s bloody civil war.  Despite these differences, Obama has promised to veto a bill that Congress passed unanimously allowing families of 9/11 victims to sue Saudi Arabia over alleged links to the 2001 terrorist attacks.  That Obama and Riyadh find themselves on the same side against Congress underscores the bizarre evolution of U.S.-Saudi ties over the past eight years. An alliance once unquestioned in Washington now faces an extraordinary level of criticism, but the two countries still need each other enough that a breakup is simply not in the cards.  ""This is clearly a relationship in transition,"" said Jon Alterman, an analyst with the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ""Nobody really has a sense of what they’re trying to transition it to.""  Former Defense Secretary William Cohen is one of several ex-national security experts who the Obama administration is rallying to convince Congress to uphold Obama's veto. Big-name ex-officials urge rejection of 9/11-Saudi bill By JOHN BRESNAHAN Just how tricky is the relationship? Two more examples: Obama is supporting the Saudis in their fight against Iran-backed rebels in Yemen, even though U.S. officials worry the fight there is distracting from the more important battle against the Islamic State. And many of the same U.S. lawmakers happy to make it easier to sue the Saudis just this week green-lit a $1.15 billion arms sale to the country. ""Does no one sense the irony?” asked Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, one of a handful of lawmakers who tried to block the weapons deal in the Senate.  The back and forth in Washington is ""schizophrenic behavior"" that has deeply frustrated leaders in the Middle East for years, said a former senior U.S. official deeply familiar with the Arab world.  Congress passed the lawsuit bill under intense pressure from families of victims and just ahead of the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The Saudis, through direct contacts as well as a powerful set of lobbyists, have tried hard to stop it, waging a major PR effort that included releasing a white paper detailing the kingdom's efforts to stop terrorists. The Saudis deny any government role in the attacks and note that the U.S. has never found proof of it, either. The Saudis also have warned they will sell off billions of dollars in U.S. assets to protect themselves against lawsuits.  Administration officials downplay the idea that Obama will veto the bill merely to protect Saudi Arabia. Normally, U.S. citizens aren't allowed to sue foreign governments under the concept of sovereign immunity. Obama's concern, officials say, thus goes well beyond the Saudis; he's worried that the bill erodes the sovereign immunity principle and could lead other countries to allow the U.S. to be sued over its actions abroad.  ""To pass a piece of legislation that would open up our diplomats and our service members and even American businesses to potential lawsuits in courts all around the world is foolish,"" White House spokesman Josh Earnest said in a recent press briefing.  160920_dianne_feinstein_1_gty_1160.jpg CONGRESS Democrats waver on override for 9/11 bill By SEUNG MIN KIM and HEATHER CAYGLE The perception in many quarters, however, is that Obama is coming to the aid of a country with much to hide. Fifteen of the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11, 2001, were Saudi nationals. And the recent declassification of roughly 30 pages from a 2002 congressional probe into the 9/11 attacks raised more questions about Saudi government ties to Islamist extremists.  ""We are disappointed that the president is not standing with us,"" said Mindy Kleinberg, who lost her husband in the attacks and was meeting with lawmakers Thursday to push for a veto override. ""We have been waiting a very long time for justice, and we feel that this bill will go a long way toward accountability.""  Whatever his motivation, Obama's decision to veto the bill is unlikely to do much to ease Saudi suspicions.  The Saudis' wariness of Obama has its roots in his comments in 2002, well before he ran for president, referring to the monarchy in Riyadh as a so-called ally. It grew after Obama sided against Egyptian strongman Hosni Mubarak during the 2011 Arab Spring movements, leading Saudi royals to question whether America would have their backs in a domestic political crisis of their own.  It deepened in 2013, after Obama decided not to stage a military strike against Syrian President Bashar Assad, who is despised by the Saudis, even after Assad apparently crossed Obama's ""red line"" by using chemical weapons. And it reached a new peak in 2015 after Obama struck a nuclear deal with Iran, a Shiite theocracy that Sunni-majority Saudi Arabia views as a growing threat in the Middle East.  Still, Obama, cognizant of the need for the U.S. to maintain alliances with stable countries in the Middle East, has otherwise tried hard to allay Saudi concerns. He cut short a trip to India to rush to see the newly crowned Saudi king, Salman, in January 2015, after the previous monarch died. He also has pushed for new weapons and other security agreements with the Saudis, in part to assuage Saudi concerns about the Iran nuclear deal.  Ryan says House will vote to override any veto of 9/11 bill Ryan says House will vote to override any veto of 9/11 bill By HEATHER CAYGLE But earlier this year, in comments to the Atlantic magazine that infuriated the Saudis, Obama appeared to reverse decades of U.S. policy that tilted heavily toward Riyadh and against Tehran.  “The competition between the Saudis and the Iranians — which has helped to feed proxy wars and chaos in Syria and Iraq and Yemen — requires us to say to our friends as well as to the Iranians that they need to find an effective way to share the neighborhood and institute some sort of cold peace,” Obama said.  Prince Turki Al-Faisal, the former head of Saudi intelligence, wrote in an extraordinary open letter soon afterward that Obama had ""thrown us a curve ball"" and criticizing the president for saying America’s Gulf allies were “free riders” wholly dependent on the U.S. for their security.  And in April, weeks after the Atlantic piece was published, Saudi Arabia appeared to snub Obama when he visited Riyadh for a summit by sending a lower-level official to greet him at the airport and not broadcasting his arrival on state TV. The readouts from those meetings in Riyadh also suggested the president hadn't done much to assuage Saudi concerns, with the two sides saying they'd ""discussed"" and ""exchanged views"" more than agreeing on anything.  The president also hosted Saudi Arabia’s deputy crown prince, Mohammed Bin Salman, when he visited Washington this summer on a trip aimed at improving the kingdom’s image in Washington. Obama made sure to praise the prince's plan to transform the Saudi economy, dubbed Vision 2030. He also tried to reassure the Saudi royal that the U.S. will back the Saudis against interference by Iran, which remains an official enemy of the United States.  But some constants in the U.S.-Saudi relationship have turned into variables, meaning that even after Obama leaves office in just a few months, the alliance could prove rocky.  160922_ted_cruz_gty_1160.jpg 2016 Cruz feeling the squeeze on Trump endorsement By BURGESS EVERETT The low price of oil, for example, is forcing the kingdom to rethink its economy; the U.S. also relies more now on its own energy reserves, reducing America’s addiction to Saudi oil. Some observers also point to cultural changes in deeply conservative Saudi Arabia — women, though still facing severe segregation, make up a growing share of the workforce; young people are more exposed than ever to the Internet and the outside world; and thousands of Saudis educated in the U.S. are now capitalizing on that experience in their country.  By all accounts, the U.S. and Saudi Arabia still maintain a strong security relationship, and U.S. officials privately say the Saudis are helpful partners in the fight against terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda, which the Saudi monarchy views as a threat to its own rule. U.S. officials also say the Saudis have taken steps in recent years to silence the most radical of their Islamist preachers and change their school curricula to be more tolerant.  ""The close cooperation on countering violent extremists like [the Islamic State], the continued Saudi preference for American arms, the important role that Saudi Arabia plays in international energy markets and the $70 billion dollars worth of annual trade between the two countries are enough to sustain this relationship for the foreseeable future,"" said Fahad Nazer, a former political analyst with the Saudi Embassy in Washington who now does similar work for JTG Inc.  In many ways, what Obama thinks about the Saudis matters less and less as his time in the Oval Office draws to an end. But while the Saudis will be happy to see him leave, there's great uncertainty in Riyadh about how the next president will deal with them.  Both Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump have voiced grave concerns about Saudi Arabia's track record of producing Islamic extremists; Clinton has said she supports the 9/11 lawsuit bill. But while Clinton would likely be a more predictable partner, the Saudis see Trump — who has called for a ban on Muslims entering the United States — as a wild card.  For now, however, the Saudis are nervously watching Congress to see exactly how unhappy lawmakers are with them.  Already, some members of Congress are hinting that they are not comfortable with the 9/11 legislation after all, and that they may consider voting to uphold Obama's veto. Their hesitation comes as a growing number of foreign countries and blocs, including the European Union, voice opposition to the bill. The original bill passed on voice vote in both Houses, making a veto override especially sensitive because members will have to go on the record. And with the presidential election looming, the politics are even more fraught than normal.  “Saudi Arabia has never been an especially popular actor in Washington — a powerful one, but not popular,"" the former senior U.S. official said. ""And now, nobody in Congress wants to stick their neck out for the Saudis two-and-a-half months before the presidential election.”  "	9/22/16	link	mostly true		17	80	3862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850311746680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		154	516	14862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850382801680	"Trump muddles message to black voters A racially divisive campaign delivers too few details about a law-and-order stance his white base cheers. By SHANE GOLDMACHER 09/22/16 05:09 PM EDT Updated 09/22/16 05:14 PM EDT Donald Trump is pictured. | Getty With all his stop-and-start black outreach, Donald Trump appears to be honing the greatest of political skills: letting different audiences hear the same words and imbue them with different meaning. | Getty  Facebook  Twitter  Google +  Email  Comment  Print  MOST READ  Kellyanne Conway strays from media critique to praise some print reporters Dems to unveil populist agenda showing Sanders' sway Sanctuary cities crackdown threatens government shutdown What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats Putin Hoists Trump on His Own Fake News Petard GAO says it's investigating Trump transition team Ben Carson gets stuck in an elevator Trump: I won't ask for Comey's resignation Trump shifting positions at breakneck pace ‘Men don’t prepare that much, so why do we have to?’  POLITICO MAGAZINE 170412-kushner-trump-ap-1160.jpg When Jared Wins By RICH LOWRY GettyImages-667160814.jpg Trump Can’t Make Assad Go By BARAK BARFI 17412_scher_kansas_ap.jpg What Kansas Didn’t Do for Democrats By BILL SCHER 17411_greenfield_Trump_getty.jpg Why the First 100 Days Concept Is Bogus By JEFF GREENFIELD Gunfire and racially charged rioting have broken out again, this time in Charlotte, offering Donald Trump another chance to unabashedly sell himself as the “law and order” candidate, to side with police over African-American protesters and to rally his overwhelmingly white base.  But Trump hasn’t quite done that.  Instead, the Republican presidential nominee delivered a more muted response as he called into Fox News Thursday morning, saying “there's a lack of spirit between the white and the black.” A day earlier, while campaigning in a black neighborhood in Cleveland, Trump defended an unarmed black man who was shot recently — and questioned the actions of the police officer who shot him.  After more than a year of running one of the most racially and ethnically divisive campaigns in decades, Trump has begun to zig and zag on issues of race in the election’s final stretch.  Appearing with black supporters and in black neighborhoods multiple times this month, Trump has sought to wash away the charges of racism that white nationalists have cheered. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, has made casting Trump as outside-the-mainstream — she hammered Trump on The Steve Harvey Show for “bullying and bigotry” this week — one of the cornerstones of her campaign.  Trump’s advisers and the candidate himself insist his concerted black outreach is a genuine effort to chip away at Democrats’ overwhelmingly margin among black voters, a group with whom he is polling in the low single digits. But Democrats, and even some skeptical Republicans, see his new tone more as an effort to make himself palatable to uneasy white voters who might otherwise be turned off by his past rhetoric.  “When he asks black voters, ‘What have you got to lose, it can’t get any worse,’ he’s really just cynically talking to white voters,” said Rob Stutzman, a veteran Republican strategist and Trump critic.  NAACP President Cornell William Brooks said, “I can't discern the intentions of Mr. Trump on this issue, but here's what we can say: Policy without particulars on the eve of the election insults the intelligence and sensitivities of any group.”  Reps. John Lewis (D-Ga.), Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.), Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and Cedric Richmond (D-La.), along with other members of the Congressional Black Caucus, hold a news conference after marching to the Department of Justice on Thursday. Black Caucus marches to DOJ to protest shootings By HEATHER CAYGLE and JOHN BRESNAHAN Trump spoke most at length about the unfolding violence in Charlotte on Thursday at an energy conference in Pittsburgh, describing a “very wounded country” and national leadership vacuum that he would fill.  “There is no right to engage in violent disruption,” Trump said, as Charlotte residents have taken to the streets in violent protest of the fatal shooting of a black man there. Police have fired back tear gas in intense clashes.  He pitched his “law and order” approach as beneficial to black communities.  “The people who will suffer most are law abiding African-American residents,” Trump said.  That line was in his prepared remarks distributed by his campaign. But moments later, he ad-libbed a white stereotype of black communities. “And if you’re not aware,” Trump said, deviating from his teleprompter. “Drugs are a very, very big factor in what you're watching on television at night.”  These days, Trump regularly tells mostly white audiences about the travesty of black neighborhoods, comparing them to war-torn places like Afghanistan. In rural North Carolina on Tuesday, Trump said that African-American communities are “absolutely in the worst shape that they’ve ever been in before, ever, ever, ever.”  On Wednesday, not long after his appearance with a Cleveland church where Trump questioned the police officer in Oklahoma who shot an unarmed black man, Terence Crutcher, Trump embraced a broad expansion “stop-and-frisk,” a controversial policing policy. By Thursday, Trump said he wasn’t backing a national policy — saying he was only referring to Chicago, despite making his comment in Cleveland.  ""We've seen an expression of empathy for the loss of Mr. Crutcher's life, followed by a call for the nationalization and expansion of stop-and-frisk, preceded by a call for law and order without specifying what that means,” Brooks said. “His platform suffers from a multiple personality disorder. It's not consistent.”  Still, Trump has clearly made some efforts. In Pittsburgh, Trump preached empathy. “We all have to walk a mile in someone else’s shoes,” he said.  It was an echo of none other than Clinton’s remarks after the shooting of police officers in Dallas in July.  “I will call for white people like myself to put ourselves in the shoes of those African-American families,” Clinton said on CNN then.  Pat Toomey is pictured. | AP Photo CONGRESS GOP senators succumb to Trump’s war on trade By SEUNG MIN KIM With all his stop-and-start black outreach, Trump appears to be honing the greatest of political skills: letting different audiences hear the same words and imbue them with different meaning.  “It just seems that there's a lack of spirit between the white and the black. I mean, it's a terrible thing that we're witnessing. You're seeing it, I'm seeing it. And you look at what went on last night in Charlotte, a great place, and you just see it,” as he said Fox News on Thursday. “There's a — there's somewhat — and I see it even going out. There's such a lack of — there's a lack of spirit. There's a lack of something. Something's going on that's bad. And what's going on between police and others is getting worse.”  The “racist” charge has deeply irked Trump’s friends and allies.  Bruce LeVell, the executive director of the National Diversity Coalition for Trump who traveled with him in Ohio this week, expressed frustration with the negative labels affixed to Trump.  “It’s just unfair, unfortunately, what he’s had to endure,” LeVell said. “I don’t believe he’s changed his tone and tenor. Donald Trump has been clear since day one he’s for all Americans.”  Trump has drawn historically low support levels in polling among African-American voters, including some swing-state surveys over the summer in Ohio and Pennsylvania that showed him with 0 percent. He has climbed from such lows, claiming his numbers are trending upward “like a rocket ship” but he remains mired in single digits in most surveys.  His approval among Latinos is not much better. In a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News, showed Trump with 17 percent support among likely Hispanic voters — 10 points below what Mitt Romney received four years ago. Nearly 80 percent had negative feelings about Trump.  Whit Ayres, a GOP pollster who has said Republicans must do better among minority groups to compete in national elections, said he couldn’t be sure who Trump’s spate of black outreach was truly targeting.  “Your question assumes a level of calculation that I am not sure is warranted,” Ayres said.  Madeline Conway contributed to this report."	9/22/16	link	mostly true		43	241	13562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850440071680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		3	80	2262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850463816680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		7	42	3062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850489266680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		18	324	5662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850559206680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		168	916	26162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850595811680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		352	911	26262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850631691680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		21	335	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850663401680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		30	264	13362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850691616680		9/22/16	link	mostly true		82	760	14162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850716636680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		143	428	6762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850763701680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		65	220	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850782621680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		202	2826	16262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850803756680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		43	431	36462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850823751680		9/23/16	link	no factual content		61	608	9262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850842831680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		58	273	10162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153850866631680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		137	407	6262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851181391680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3	65	2862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851195596680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		26	355	5662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851211476680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		243	858	27562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851238691680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		38	208	6362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851263791680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3	35	1062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851288686680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		268	565	10362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851333666680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		27	94	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851373246680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		28	397	11362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851444211680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		10	47	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851502376680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		652	4828	24962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851558591680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		264	1454	21562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851611551680		9/23/16	link	no factual content		5	69	4762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851637031680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		15	202	9762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851665726680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		59	1180	11662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851691046680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	44	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851714566680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		167	872	8862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851741766680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		3	82	6062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851779346680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2	64	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851830226680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		79	280	13762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851867521680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		6	31	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851939481680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		37	98	4162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153851994871680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		43	271	15962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852052471680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		228	1656	13762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852087691680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		54	472	34862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852143781680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		64	548	49062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852153391680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		375	1659	75262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852231316680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		25	192	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852268026680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		13	129	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852298381680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	27	462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852331841680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		16	110	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852358836680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		200	848	41962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852401756680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	31	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852438006680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		342	3065	104262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852448896680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		184	601	13762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852478271680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		362	3419	22262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852517876680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		9	47	3562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852532071680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		193	1118	48262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852560601680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		272	3795	12362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852595686680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		53	440	21362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852626836680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		13	155	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852680701680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		46	617	20262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852719596680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		64	332	18262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852762541680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2	47	662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852796981680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		133	633	19462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852828751680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		314	1075	37962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852873576680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1523	7737	84562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852915751680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		10	133	9562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153852969296680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		64	605	31762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853018636680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		51	251	5262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853060316680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		27	243	4762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853093431680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		4	46	6162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853130336680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		41	587	13262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853172041680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		40	267	9962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853200791680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		108	886	77362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853224566680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		33	177	23062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853252201680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		35	189	12762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153853271431680		9/23/16	link	mostly true		18	144	11762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153858905721680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		25	543	5862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153858936641680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		31	504	21562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153858968651680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		9	273	11362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153858997181680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		35	282	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859022796680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		458	2936	11362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859049051680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		419	1111	51862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859084076680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		34	326	17462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859159961680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		119	405	7262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859289826680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		270	1231	33762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859309321680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		24	205	3562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859362661680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		92	335	15262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859454701680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		148	764	73462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859478516680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		17	96	4462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859503661680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		597	1427	32762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859529161680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3	18	462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859552511680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		13	60	1862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859593866680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		24	182	9562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859635511680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		167	866	8062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859655731680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		450	2782	25762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859680776680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		24	72	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859704106680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		84	812	60062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859726306680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		16	147	6562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859749961680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		65	506	15362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859777431680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		74	921	16562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859818691680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		23	277	27862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859872071680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		6	121	362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859901176680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		27	388	23062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859930246680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		35	288	11062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153859966556680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		13	65	2962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860025456680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		12233	21425	100562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860062136680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		9	59	362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860101741680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		8	187	11662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860155341680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		46	134	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860198456680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		36	292	17262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860245701680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		10	103	5262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860289606680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		14	177	11262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860332881680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		25	218	14962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860375561680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		18	655	13062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860396816680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		12	22	2362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860484366680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		49	244	6662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860521826680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		10	161	8662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860570401680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		4	35	3362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860575936680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		40	179	7462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860612816680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		32	518	10262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860655326680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		22	427	6162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860728181680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2	19	762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860787616680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		86	961	10662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860817196680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		238	1942	40562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860851616680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		15	154	7562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860885286680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		23	616	7062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860915206680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		19	598	3362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153860948576680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		10	71	5262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861001506680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3	17	762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861035666680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		11	31	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861180571680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		5	40	862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861229896680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	352	2422	16962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861274306680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	16	120	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861369491680		9/26/16	link	mostly true		411	5404	18762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861394591680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	119	278	7562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861412181680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	995	9263	55462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861433151680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	40	623	9662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861460191680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	7	162	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861481676680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	1849	2352	18162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861514556680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	22	325	7862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861538176680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	774	3586	20862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861562716680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	48	394	10962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861587156680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	164	1988	16362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861603201680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	217	1836	16562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861620116680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	108	816	52462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861646446680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	212	4119	18862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861663116680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	86	1460	16062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861687866680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	12	183	8162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861704281680		9/26/16	link	mostly true	yes	25	250	16562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861731201680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	325	1928	13262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861753366680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	37	489	24662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861784371680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	2197	5176	152162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861814501680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	13	195	6962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861840366680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	478	2215	22062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861868021680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	189	1394	15962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861897266680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	187	1974	18362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861921176680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	10	112	3062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861921181680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	27	377	30562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861933236680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	18	621	6562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861942616680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1579	5525	141962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861954621680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	96	807	20862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861964436680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	50	827	8662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861964766680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	5	122	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153861973831680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	35	255	4962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862007651680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	177	1397	13362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862032416680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	965	10414	55162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862089056680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	9	255	2762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862113791680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	23	254	10362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862148556680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	19	306	7062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862186506680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	53	362	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862234736680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	17	186	20362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862266756680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	41	237	2562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862286261680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	825	1708	40462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862317766680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	37	197	7062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862341241680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	93	770	19062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862364781680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	284	1246	15162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862388511680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	9	208	6062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862413391680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		18	188	2462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862455101680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	2	31	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862477716680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		5	189	9262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862513936680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		18	110	1362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862549226680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	22	773	5562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862576261680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	432	2016	72362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862636551680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	101	659	37762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862701901680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	11	150	1762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862749066680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	24	192	5562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862804666680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	129	830	17862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862834566680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	66	534	14162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862857761680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	69	690	43262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862875541680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	75	887	19762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862895056680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	48	978	13962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862918406680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	265	3232	24162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153862974566680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	420	3347	157662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863046216680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	473	2070	129362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863113156680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	65	1070	15362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863157416680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	13	98	3062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863209076680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	245	3767	22262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863248021680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	62	1273	7962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863282756680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	29	553	28862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863312421680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		10	107	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863362721680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	30	255	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863410716680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		12	46	1962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863440471680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	51	702	10362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863466766680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	5	163	3862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863493451680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	363	3317	18062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863521071680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	101	1665	10862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863548616680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	53	741	13562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863580491680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		29	170	5562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863609551680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		37	415	9962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863647411680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	48	2062317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863675936680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		3	12	162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863707481680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		90	1225	18662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863748241680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	64	1441	29462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863772126680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		13	210	8962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863798951680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	57	1262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863814371680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		162	1805	5162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863827486680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		20	78	3462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863850801680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	133	1198	32462317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863870026680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	13	180	11562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863893906680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	3	63	2162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863913971680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		6	98	2562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863936096680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		663	5742	45662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863957971680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		113	525	6562317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153863978636680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		37	404	6262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864003456680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		94	1401	53762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864028151680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		18	50	2662317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864173561680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	147	962317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864199611680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		15	95	4362317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864243006680		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	16	203	3762317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864287871680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1286	8025	23862317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864316716680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		94	385	3262317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864344406680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1127	6443	20162317591679	1.02E+16	mainstream	Politico	https://www.facebook.com/politico/posts/10153864379636680		9/27/16	link	mostly true		190	1974	4083.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532356203491170		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		57	196	193.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532642180129239		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		247	1682	2923.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532643136795810		9/19/16	link	mostly true		182	860	2923.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532647310128726		9/19/16	link	mostly true		60	254	973.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532681383458652		9/19/16	link	mostly true		29	153	113.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532698746790249		9/19/16	link	mostly true		5434	7211	36673.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532734506786673		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		615	1104	1783.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532832206776903		9/19/16	link	mostly true		401	672	583.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532881043438686		9/19/16	link	mostly true		591	1361	2513.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532908913435899		9/19/16	link	mostly false		179	354	453.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532911963435594		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		252	680	1453.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1532921576767966		9/19/16	link	mostly true		193	1015	1123.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533113463415444		9/19/16	link	mostly true		21	111	113.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533113753415415		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		33	75	13.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533157076744416		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		246	1272	203.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533195113407279		9/19/16	link	mostly false		248	1174	233.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533231846736939		9/19/16	link	mostly true		21	66	63.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533245070068950		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		2361	3757	8233.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533267573400033		9/19/16	link	mostly false		203	2115	403.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533342506725873		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		309	2167	493.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533357266724397		9/19/16	link	mostly true		272	2409	533.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533416976718426		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		748	1417	713.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533423856717738		9/19/16	link	mostly true		1640	2676	2843.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533462590047198		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		52	131	253.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533484480045009		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		635	1604	2963.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533484903378300		9/19/16	link	mostly false		33	204	283.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533505773376213		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		87	707	243.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533522823374508		9/19/16	link	mostly false		244	813	773.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533544910038966		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		471	1374	893.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533564693370321		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		1925	3618	2183.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533565416703582		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		645	740	593.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533574676702656		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		117	538	243.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533587613368029		9/19/16	link	mostly true		52	154	1033.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533602873366503		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		31	130	83.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533633026696821		9/19/16	link	mostly true		441	5497	6083.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533641233362667		9/19/16	link	mixture of true and false		47	198	203.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533646686695455		9/19/16	link	mostly true		51	86	123.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533485176711606		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		110	686	2923.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533560386704085		9/20/16	link	mostly true		266	1714	7503.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533561080037349		9/20/16	link	mostly true		46	265	1313.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533561563370634		9/20/16	link	mostly true		63	467	1713.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533655556694568		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3	24	23.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533684746691649		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		29	59	303.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533718176688306		9/20/16	link	no factual content		25	75	113.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533767940016663		9/20/16	link	mostly true		302	1004	4323.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533775493349241		9/20/16	link	mostly true		38	61	113.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1533784520015005		9/20/16	link	mostly true		25	82	53.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534110946649029		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		9686	6957	52783.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534120519981405		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		207	899	1323.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534159839977473		9/20/16	link	mostly true		17	113	83.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534179359975521		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		322	512	323.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534198449973612		9/20/16	link	mostly true		195	1242	183.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534201289973328		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		10	54	133.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534243529969104		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1113	7157	1683.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534275973299193		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		326	638	2813.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534301686629955		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		47	377	1343.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534315063295284		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		1151	2695	16853.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534333036626820		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2	34	343.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534367469956710		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		116	651	5413.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534381913288599		9/20/16	link	mostly false		518	977	703.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534384496621674		9/20/16	link	mostly true		25	208	183.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534385149954942		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		5999	6736	7853.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534385633288227		9/20/16	link	mostly false		3242	2300	7703.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534388073287983		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		401	943	873.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534414779951979		9/20/16	link	mostly false		462	1090	3423.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534436736616450		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		1268	2106	2363.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534437056616418		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		84	558	233.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534495839943873		9/20/16	link	mostly true		83	281	783.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534496223277168		9/20/16	link	mostly true		19	227	163.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534513726608751		9/20/16	link	mostly true		29	78	183.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534597779933679		9/20/16	link	no factual content		674	4252	4253.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534123166647807		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		83	1069	633.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534500893276701		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		62	577	163.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534503949943062		9/21/16	link	mostly true		207	325	1563.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534504519943005		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		3100	3549	11653.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534618096598314		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		1292	1969	5863.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534635753263215		9/21/16	link	mostly true		2872	6876	48253.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534739753252815		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1799	6845	24633.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534770536583070		9/21/16	link	mostly true		18	171	153.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534790326581091		9/21/16	link	mostly true		32	65	223.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534794629913994		9/21/16	link	mostly true		30	57	53.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534797456580378		9/21/16	link	mostly true		41	321	153.90E+14	1.53E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1534822329911224		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1248	2246	7543.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535093403217450		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		326	852	2403.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535118553214935		9/21/16	link	mostly true		140	234	1023.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535139569879500		9/21/16	link	mostly false		272	745	193.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535159083210882		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		1932	7824	2353.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535160086544115		9/21/16	link	mostly true		30	315	23.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535192106540913		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		77	178	183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535207366539387		9/21/16	link	mostly true		843	1408	4363.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535215299871927		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		4817	5182	19823.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535238946536229		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1509	1612	7113.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535239779869479		9/21/16	link	mostly false		1058	1430	6913.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535261273200663		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		337	1110	323.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535268606533263		9/21/16	link	mostly false		388	2374	563.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535279636532160		9/21/16	link	mostly true		12	28	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535323903194400		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		1304	8094	10123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535325116527612		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		516	1501	1123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535347349858722		9/21/16	link	mostly true		53	181	503.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535349359858521		9/21/16	link	mostly true		359	3862	2113.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535358763190914		9/21/16	link	mostly true		7803	6281	7233.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535359209857536		9/21/16	link	mostly false		781	1273	893.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535389693187821		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		341	1360	3503.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535406226519501		9/21/16	link	mostly true		10	82	73.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535421029851354		9/21/16	link	mixture of true and false		147	488	1343.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535425153184275		9/21/16	link	mostly true		59	480	43.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535476346512489		9/21/16	link	mostly true		183	344	943.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535503506509773		9/21/16	link	mostly true		26	94	63.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535504653176325		9/21/16	link	mostly true		32	164	543.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535215869871870		9/22/16	link	mostly false		12696	31112	19323.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535426333184157		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		636	1375	6223.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535468749846582		9/22/16	link	mostly true		494	1223	24843.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535469246513199		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1565	3059	1783.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535469926513131		9/22/16	link	mostly true		66	636	3913.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535623886497735		9/22/16	link	mostly true		62	237	133.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535631736496950		9/22/16	link	mostly true		41	215	183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535639676496156		9/22/16	link	mostly true		42	373	183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535693429824114		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		101	579	3433.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535717173155073		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		21613	28079	67113.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1535745026485621		9/22/16	link	mostly true		682	4609	1033.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536003009793156		9/22/16	link	mostly true		37	164	963.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536032113123579		9/22/16	link	mostly true		13	107	73.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536034386456685		9/22/16	link	mostly true		8	50	53.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536040396456084		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1865	2236	2523.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536049633121827		9/22/16	link	mostly true		155	255	653.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536072073119583		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		9005	7885	9133.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536113469782110		9/22/16	link	mostly true		239	1042	263.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536142573112533		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		1149	2968	1203.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536171736442950		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2337	7482	1943.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536202833106507		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		365	502	1093.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536252559768201		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1387	1851	3133.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536254529768004		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		521	3296	1183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536260199767437		9/22/16	link	no factual content		1456	8539	13533.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536278733098917		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		465	3996	1093.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536288833097907		9/22/16	link	mostly true		734	3503	1183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536292406430883		9/22/16	link	mostly true		241	2152	363.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536357929757664		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		3216	7163	10663.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536363749757082		9/22/16	link	mostly true		91	506	1523.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536364406423683		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		854	4109	763.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536405913086199		9/22/16	link	mostly false		194	1045	1163.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536422456417878		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		54	140	183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536425696417554		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		2590	3037	4813.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536426129750844		9/22/16	link	mostly true		1041	2843	733.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536446759748781		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		693	1606	21093.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536456256414498		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		95	324	553.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536469309746526		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		27	384	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536289316431192		9/23/16	link	no factual content		172	638	333.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536412213085569		9/23/16	link	mostly true		472	2089	1103.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536413306418793		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1064	954	3593.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536413839752073		9/23/16	link	mostly true		612	1859	6353.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536453026414821		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2383	2097	5443.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536462213080569		9/23/16	link	mostly true		22	53	13.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536475899745867		9/23/16	link	mostly true		46	97	73.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536723073054483		9/23/16	link	mostly true		93	727	343.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536741886385935		9/23/16	link	mostly true		158	1119	183.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536756259717831		9/23/16	link	mostly true		328	927	3533.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536922646367859		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		1528	1119	1043.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536957956364328		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		1541	1875	2223.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1536984533028337		9/23/16	link	mostly true		32	34	83.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537029496357174		9/23/16	link	mostly true		8	62	13.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537035069689950		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		44	145	153.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537036646356459		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		5323	4317	18063.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537036873023103		9/23/16	link	mostly false		2918	9774	14113.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537051736354950		9/23/16	link	mostly true		618	1035	3143.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537083299685127		9/23/16	link	mostly true		659	818	933.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537111876348936		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		801	1732	523.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537113223015468		9/23/16	link	mostly true		11	57	23.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537165473010243		9/23/16	link	mostly false		3950	4740	7453.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537170436343080		9/23/16	link	mostly false		370	649	2103.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537227593004031		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1043	6072	1243.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537255199667937		9/23/16	link	mostly true		301	991	1853.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537273286332795		9/23/16	link	mostly true		986	1907	7933.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537295819663875		9/23/16	link	mostly true		103	297	283.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537296322997158		9/23/16	link	mostly true		11	53	113.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537317812995009		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		1117	2404	4813.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537331469660310		9/23/16	link	mostly true		74	234	163.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537349639658493		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		91	581	383.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537364532990337		9/23/16	link	mostly true		39	206	163.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537365569656900		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		329	1267	1663.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537407516319372		9/23/16	link	mostly true		32	370	413.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537443809649076		9/23/16	link	mostly true		63	650	273.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537451599648297		9/23/16	link	mostly true		5730	23202	7103.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537394959653961		9/26/16	link	mostly true		346	1261	743.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537397452987045		9/26/16	link	mostly true		29	316	573.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1537400259653431		9/26/16	link	mostly true		56	289	213.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539330632793727		9/26/16	link	mostly true		299	628	3023.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539358426124281		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		1227	2611	8353.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539358749457582		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1316	3302	38353.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539608462765944		9/26/16	link	mostly true		317	1503	583.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539702449423212		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		620	857	4643.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539723316087792		9/26/16	link	mostly true		383	1734	243.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539810262745764		9/26/16	link	mostly true		131	1304	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539836552743135		9/26/16	link	mostly false		1121	1366	1403.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539868386073285		9/26/16	link	mostly true		25	69	93.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1539885922738198		9/26/16	link	mostly true		4	99	53.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540119802714810		9/26/16	link	mostly true		538	1733	9763.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540141122712678		9/26/16	link	mostly false		9969	4700	7463.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540162639377193		9/26/16	link	mostly true		13	97	73.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540193686040755		9/26/16	link	mostly true		9	110	63.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540246229368834		9/26/16	link	mostly false		39	169	33.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540260392700751		9/26/16	link	mostly false		4846	7014	6913.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540275436032580		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		1423	2264	7143.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540297709363686		9/26/16	link	mostly false		799	4648	2353.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540306349362822		9/26/16	link	mostly true		34	188	333.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540342229359234		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		5942	8273	1533.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540351249358332		9/26/16	link	mostly true		8	62	13.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540364386023685		9/26/16	link	mostly false		5496	4590	1923.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540384676021656		9/26/16	link	mostly true		141	1601	263.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540420086018115		9/26/16	link	mostly true		277	2467	873.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540433016016822		9/26/16	link	mixture of true and false		152	460	513.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540442522682538		9/26/16	link	mostly true		9	127	43.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540450216015102		9/26/16	link	mostly true		96	395	1763.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540477972678993		9/26/16	link	mostly true			248	163.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540494449344012		9/26/16	link	mostly true		332	1926	12313.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540497706010353		9/26/16	link	mostly true		45	111	203.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540545319338925		9/26/16	link	mostly true		26	142	333.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540570659336391		9/26/16	link	mostly true		711	1640	4373.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540600632666727		9/26/16	link	mostly true		34	364	253.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540613699332087		9/26/16	link	mostly true		1449	3426	563.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540620299331427		9/26/16	link	mostly true		14	221	243.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540644545995669		9/26/16	link	mostly true		29	252	933.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540342782692512		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1194	1894	1503.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540422492684541		9/27/16	link	mostly true		66	404	883.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540536406006483		9/27/16	link	mostly true		246	1797	2533.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540537062673084		9/27/16	link	mostly true		29	271	1003.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540537632673027		9/27/16	link	mostly true		15	248	13.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540741412652649		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		244	959	933.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540755632651227		9/27/16	link	mostly true		56	416	343.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540768572649933		9/27/16	link	mostly true		52	484	163.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540794569314000		9/27/16	link	mostly true		3384	12218	14153.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540816912645099		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1901	4030	22133.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1540826605977463		9/27/16	link	mostly true		28	64	713.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541031592623631		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		170	305	53.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541064949286962		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1119	2869	413.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541101805949943		9/27/16	link	mostly true		7	104	13.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541143495945774		9/27/16	link	mostly true		10	45	103.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541150429278414		9/27/16	link	mostly true		45	518	223.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541170652609725		9/27/16	link	mostly true		682	1713	8373.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541185715941552		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		457	523	513.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541196449273812		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		308	605	423.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541205512606239		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		7529	16178	5943.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541262999267157		9/27/16	link	mostly true		119	247	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541285255931598		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		16	56	53.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541310929262364		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	2881	5035	2673.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541311299262327		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	196	810	463.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541315515928572		9/27/16	link	mostly false	yes	6990	9375	15003.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541316919261765		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		28	83	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541336249259832		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		1519	1874	1313.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541362219257235		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		311	598	1363.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541376565922467		9/27/16	link	mostly true		2821	5582	5663.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541392409254216		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	339	831	493.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541392902587500		9/27/16	link	mostly true		195	376	123.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541426375917486		9/27/16	link	mostly false		3330	4918	8583.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541442682582522		9/27/16	link	mostly true		49	297	443.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541481155912008		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1766	9508	16203.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541483359245121		9/27/16	link	mostly true		8	201	293.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541508222575968		9/27/16	link	mostly true		180	773	233.90E+14	1.54E+15	right	Right Wing News	https://www.facebook.com/OfficialRightWingNews/posts/1541548145905309		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		20	93	231.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462507497093557		9/19/16	link	mostly true		26726	20354	14711.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462535517090755		9/19/16	link	mostly true		3899	12225	3781.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462679840409656		9/19/16	link	mostly true		483	5317	1011.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462696813741292		9/19/16	link	mostly true		4030	24066	3311.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462710973739876		9/19/16	link	mostly true		33767	27185	31291.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1462997013711272		9/19/16	link	mostly true		2855	5604	5291.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463039507040356		9/20/16	link	mixture of true and false		4338	18160	9061.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463581596986147		9/20/16	link	no factual content		219688	100593	93001.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463683516975955		9/20/16	link	mostly true		1579	7170	3261.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463729303638043		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2502	3784	1531.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463764970301143		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3997	13299	2731.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463780856966221		9/20/16	link	no factual content		14073	32698	6331.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463817080295932		9/20/16	link	mostly true		9494	15965	16391.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463921996952107		9/20/16	link	mostly true		3391	13551	3151.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463979930279647		9/20/16	link	mostly true		2616	7933	5831.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1463990873611886		9/20/16	link	mostly true		4781	15389	2581.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464060453604928		9/20/16	link	mostly true		11222	17141	8741.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464283156915991		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1290	2672	1651.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464677133543260		9/21/16	link	mostly true		6195	20340	5281.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464716553539318		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1238	2797	4481.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464796833531290		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1688	6210	8521.15E+14	1.46E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1464894210188219		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1646	5560	2671.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1465022330175407		9/21/16	link	mostly true		15116	20307	9831.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1465025620175078		9/21/16	link	mostly true		13322	13614	12741.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1465226670154973		9/21/16	link	mostly true		1261	4013	2001.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1465228143488159		9/22/16	link	mostly true		2371	6918	4151.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1465396840137956		9/22/16	link	mostly true		642	2593	2471.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1466055430072097		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		3582	7945	6291.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1466093066735000		9/22/16	link	mixture of true and false		9664	8836	5071.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1466120426732264		9/22/16	link	mostly true		11754	32468	25841.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1466189783391995		9/22/16	link	mostly true		4371	9255	5371.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467143326629974		9/23/16	link	mixture of true and false		4749	7665	5481.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467182919959348		9/23/16	link	mostly true		1529	3287	6241.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467331466611160		9/23/16	link	mostly true		25072	42029	15241.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467409646603342		9/23/16	link	mostly true		505	2429	1181.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467412629936377		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2586	5880	4351.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467630153247958		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2001	4125	1961.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1467680639909576		9/23/16	link	mostly true		2299	6942	17091.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1470679842942989		9/26/16	link	mostly true		6170	21808	6831.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1470805562930417		9/26/16	link	no factual content	yes	229	984	1001.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1470814329596207		9/26/16	link	mostly false		32181	48387	25511.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1470918642919109		9/26/16	link	mostly true		3487	6642	5931.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1471149526229354		9/26/16	link	mostly true		2896	9713	3311.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1471172392893734		9/26/16	link	mostly true		465	1839	1111.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1471327616211545		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	2443	9244	10901.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1471344899543150		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	1971	14502	10941.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1471858869491753		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1054	4479	3501.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1472006522810321		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false	yes	516	2397	3341.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1472419749435665		9/27/16	link	mostly true		1451	4828	3421.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1472551312755842		9/27/16	link	mixture of true and false		8236	12083	8561.15E+14	1.47E+15	left	The Other 98%	https://www.facebook.com/TheOther98/posts/1472557792755194		9/27/16	link	mostly true	yes	3985	12966	538