1. IRAN: ISRAELI ATTACK COULD TRIGGER WORLD WAR IIIA top military commander in Iran, Amir Ali Hajizadeh, says his country would launch a preemptive strike on Israel if it was positive the Jewish state were preparing to attack. He added any assault on Iranian soil could trigger "World War III." The alarming rhetoric comes as the U.S. Senate passed a measure this weekend to continue diplomatic and economic pressure on Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programs. [NBC News]………………………………………………………………………………2. FLOODS IN INDIA DISPLACE 1 MILLION, KILL 33Floods and landslides triggered by ruthless rain in northeast India have left at least 33 people dead and more than a million without homes. Government officials said Monday that the states hardest hit were Sikkim, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. In Assam alone, nearly one million residents have been displaced and eight have been killed. In July, flooding in the same area killed 110 people. [Reuters]………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 21, 20123. REPORT: LIBYA ATTACK A BLOW TO CIA EFFORTSThe deadly Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was a major blow to U.S. intelligence, according to a report in The New York Times. Of the two dozen personnel evacuated from Libya since the assault, about 12 were CIA operatives who were tasked with keeping an eye on militant groups. "It's a catastrophic intelligence loss," said one American official. "We got our eyes poked out." [New York Times]………………………………………………………………………………4. POLL: MITT'S SUPPORT AMONG ELDERLY CRUMBLESIt's more bad news for Mitt Romney. The Republican presidential nominee is losing support among older Americans, a pivotal demographic that consistently votes in high numbers. According to a poll by Reuters/Ipsos, in less than two weeks, Romney's support among voters age 60 and older has slid from a 20-point lead over President Obama to fewer than four points. The survey also found that Romney's previous advantage among older voters on the issue of Medicare has crumbled. Older voters oppose Republican vice-presidential nominee Paul Ryan's healthcare plan for the elderly by a 2-to-1 ratio. [Reuters] ………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: Should the U.S. end Cold War sanctions against Russia?5. CHINESE WORKERS BRAWL AT IPHONE FIRM'S DORMTaiwan's Foxconn Technology Group, which assembles Apple iPhones, has temporarily closed a plant in China's Shanxi province after a brawl broke out Monday among 2,000 workers at a company dormitory. At least 40 people were taken to hospitals for medical attention and several were arrested, Foxconn said in a statement. The company said the fight began due to a "personal dispute." However, there are reports that the violence started after a guard severely beat up a worker and insulted people from Henan province. [Los Angeles Times] ………………………………………………………………………………6. MANY HISPANICS COULD BE DETERRED FROM VOTINGNew voting laws in 23 of the 50 states could disenfranchise more than 10 million Hispanic voters, a key demographic that tends to vote Democratic. According a study by the Advancement Project, such restrictions, including photo-identification laws and requirements to prove citizenship, will have a "disproportionate effect" on Latinos and minorities. Republican governors pushing the legislation insist the move is to prevent voter fraud. [USA Today] ………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 15, 20127. SARS-LIKE VIRUS DETECTED IN MIDDLE EASTThe World Health Organization is urgently seeking more information after British authorities alerted them to a new respiratory illness resembling SARS in a critically ill patient who recently traveled to Saudi Arabia. The 49-year-old Qatari resident was sickened by coronavirus, which causes most common colds but also SARS. In 2003, SARS killed hundreds of people in a short-lived outbreak. The U.N. said virus samples closely resemble those of a 60-year-old Saudi national who died earlier this year. [Associated Press] ………………………………………………………………………………8. HOMELAND, MODERN FAMILY RAKE IN EMMYSShowtime's Homeland and ABC's Modern Family were the big winners at Sunday night's Emmys, with each show taking four awards. Claire Danes of Homeland won best lead drama actress while her co-star Damian Lewis won best lead actor in a drama. The psychological thriller's wins were a major upset to AMC's Mad Men, which has previously dominated the drama category. [CNN] ………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 16, 20129. PANDA CUB DIES AT NATIONAL ZOOThe National Zoo in Washington D.C. is mourning the loss of a much-anticipated panda cub born earlier this month. Panda-keepers were alerted to the tragedy after hearing sounds of distress from the cub's mother Mei Xiang. The cause of death is not yet known. The baby panda was the first panda cub to be born at the zoo since 2005. "These bears are so critically endangered that every cub is important," Dennis Kelly, the zoo's director. "This is devastating for all of us here." [New York Times]………………………………………………………………………………10. BILLIE JOE ARMSTRONG CHECKS INTO REHAB Green Day frontman Billie Joe Armstrong has checked himself to rehab for substance abuse, according to the band's representative. The announcement comes after the 40-year-old singer had an expletive-laden meltdown onstage at the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas on Friday. The Grammy-winning band, whose new album goes on sale Tuesday, is also canceling some upcoming performances. [Associated Press]SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 22, 2012View this article on TheWeek.com Get 4 Free Issues of The WeekOther stories from this section:	2	4	1	4	3	4	4	4	4	3	4	2	1	3	3	4