1. AHMADINEJAD CALLS FOR NEW WORLD ORDERIranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ripped Western countries in response to President Obama's address at the United Nations. The loose-lipped leader insisted to The Associated Press that America is a bully, adding "God willing, a new order will come together and we'll do away with everything that distances us." Ahmadinejad also dismissed the notion that Iran is trying to build nuclear weapons and claimed that — despite Western sanctions — his country is better off than when he came into office seven years ago. [Associated Press]………………………………………………………………………………2. TODD AKIN STAYS IN SENATE RACEEmbattled Republican Missouri Senate candidate Todd Akin is staying in the race, despite calls from the GOP establishment, including Mitt Romney, to drop out. Tuesday was the last day Akin — under fire for his comments about "legitimate rape" — could be removed from the November ballot. Akin told reporters that Missouri voters spoke when they elected him to be the GOP nominee to face once-vulnerable Democrat Claire McCaskill. "It's not really my decision [to stay in the race]" he said. [USA Today]………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 13, 20123. BOMBS HIT SYRIA MILITARY HQ, REPORTER KILLEDTwo bombs rocked one of Syria's military buildings in the capital of Damascus Wednesday, engulfing the building in flames. Iran's state-controlled Press TV said one of its reporters was shot and killed by a sniper as he tried to find out information about the explosions. There was no immediate word on casualities from Syrian authorities. The bombings near the army and air force command headquarters were the latest to hit the city as rebels increase their attacks to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad's regime. [CBS News]………………………………………………………………………………4. OBAMA, ROMNEY CRISSCROSS IN BATTLEGROUND OHIOPresident Obama and Mitt Romney will both be in Ohio all day Wednesday, trying to pick up votes in the crucial, battleground state. It's the first time in about two months that the two have been on the same turf. Obama will stop at Bowling Green State University and Kent State University, while his opponent will host a business roundtable in Bedford Heights before heading to Toledo. A new Washington Post poll shows Obama with an 8-point lead against Romney. No GOP candidate has ever won the White House without carrying the Buckeye State. [ABC News]………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 19, 20125. GREEKS TO STRIKE AGAINST AUSTERITY Government officials in Greece are bracing for a big strike by protesters enraged by a new round of austerity measures being considered in the debt-addled country. The two biggest unions, representing nearly two million employees, have called for the nation-wide strike on Wednesday. Workers are contesting salary, pension, and welfare cuts worth nearly 12 billion euros over the next two years in return for aid from the European Union and International Monetary fund. In preparation for the strike, flights and trains were suspended, several shops closed, and hospitals called in emergency staff. [Reuters]………………………………………………………………………………6. NFL ADMITS ERROR BUT UPHOLDS TOUCHDOWNThe Seattle Seahawks beat the Green Bay Packers on Monday night on a Hail Mary touchdown pass that many fans believed was an interception rather than a touchdown. The NFL released a statement upholding the controversial call by the replacement refs. It said the results were final but conceded Seawhawks receiver Golden Tate should have been called for an offensive pass interference before the catch. [Associated Press]………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 21, 20127. BROWN'S STAFF UNDER FIRE FOR 'TOMAHAWK CHOP'Republican Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown's campaign is coming under the microscope after a video surfaced showing the lawmaker's top staffers chanting Indian "war whoops" and making "tomahawk chops" during a Boston rally last weekend. The offensive footage comes as Brown attempts to make his opponent, Democrat Elizabeth Warren's claimed Native American heritage an issue in the race. Brown told a local station that he didn't "condone" his staffers' actions but insisted the "real offense" is that Warren is white but she has previously "checked the box saying she is Native American." [The Hill]………………………………………………………………………………8. 'MANHATTAN MADAM' PLEADS GUILTY Anna Gristina, the suburban mother of four charged with running an expensive escort service in New York City, pleaded guilty Tuesday to promoting prostitution as part of a plea deal. The 45-year-old, nicknamed the "Manhattan Madam," had previously argued that she ran a dating service for 15 years, and not a multi-million dollar prostitution ring. The judge said she'll be sentenced Nov. 20 to time served and probation. The legal U.S. resident, originally from Scotland, could also be deported. [Associated Press]………………………………………………………………………………SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 17, 20129. STUDY: SUICIDE KILLS MORE THAN CAR CRASHESAccording to a new study published in the American Journal of Public Health, suicide has surpassed car accidents as the No. 1 cause of injury-related death in the United States. From 2000 to 2009, the death rate from suicide increased 15 percent, while it decreased a substantial 25 percent for car crashes. Death by unintentional poisoning, which includes drug overdoses, came in third after increasing a whopping 128 percent in the same time period. [LiveScience]………………………………………………………………………………10. MADONNA CALLS OBAMA A 'BLACK MUSLIM'Pop star Madonna is raising eyebrows after exclaiming at her Washington D.C. concert on Monday, "For better or worse, all right, we have a black Muslim in the White House." The singer, who had "Obama" written on her back, urged her fans to vote for Obama in November. Madonna said in a statement on Tuesday that she was being deliberately ironic. "Yes, I know Obama is not a Muslim — though I know that plenty of people in this country think he is. And what if he were? The point I was making is that a good man is a good man, no matter who he prays to. I don't care what religion Obama is — nor should anyone else in America," she said. [NBC News]SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know today: September 11, 2012View this article on TheWeek.com Get 4 Free Issues of The WeekOther stories from this section:	3	2	2	2	2	2	2	2	3	1	3	2	1	1	3	4