Sixteen people were killed in Pakistan during nationwide protests against a YouTube video on Friday, according to reports from police.[More from Mashable: Judge: Actress in Anti-Muslim Film Can’t Force YouTube to Take it Down]Tens of thousands of Pakistanis rioted against "Innocence of Muslims," a controversial video that's been fueling protests across the world. Buildings were lit aflame and rocks were hurled through windows. Pakistani law enforcement fired tear gas and, in some cases, live ammunition in efforts to disperse the crowds, according to the Associated Press.AP VIDEO: Pakistani officials say at least 16 people killed in protests against anti-Islam film, 12 in Karachi:apne.ws/Q1OdNN[More from Mashable: Mother Jones Editor: YouTube at Core of Romney Hidden Cam Story]— The Associated Press (@AP) September 21, 2012Among the dead was Mohammad Amir, a driver for a local television station, who was reportedly killed when police gunfire struck his vehicle in Peshawar. The police were trying to clear protestors attempting to burn a local movie theater at the time.A protestor in Peshawar was also killed, along with a police officer in Karachi who was apparently shot by armed demonstrators.Pakistan's government blocked YouTube on Thursday, a day ahead of the violent protests. Around the same time, the government declared Friday a national holiday -- the "Day of Love for the Prophet Muhammad" -- to allow for protests. National leaders, however urged protesters to remain peaceful -- a message some demonstrators seem to be ignoring.Pakistani officials reportedly jammed or otherwise shut down cell phone services in at least 15 cities across the country in an effort to disrupt protestors' ability to organize.Friday has become known as the most active day of the week for protests in Muslim communities, as many uprisings have begun directly after Friday prayers.Protests related to the film have developed in dozens of other heavily Muslim countries, including Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Afghanistan and elsewhere.The BBC's Aleem Maqbool has been covering protests outside the American Embassy in Islamabad on Twitter:just moved back a touch after more live rounds twitter.com/AleemMaqbool/s…— Aleem Maqbool (@AleemMaqbool) September 21, 2012lots of live rounds fired in last few mins, more tear gas. numbers definitely increased close to diplomatic enclave— Aleem Maqbool (@AleemMaqbool) September 21, 2012seen more injured in last hour than all of yesterday. once again ppl saying they want to burn the u.s. embassy.— Aleem Maqbool (@AleemMaqbool) September 21, 2012police firing more teargas into the dark. they're forcibly bringing this to an end. ambulances still rushing injured out....— Aleem Maqbool (@AleemMaqbool) September 21, 2012This story originally published on Mashable here.	4	3	3	3	4	4	3	3	3	2	3	2	1	3	3	4