With advances in smartphone technology and camera resolution, it's now easier than ever to capture quality images with the mobile device you carry everywhere. The rise of photo editing apps has added to this movement toward mobile photography, which is becoming a burgeoning and reputable art form.[More from Mashable: 4 Tips to Avoid Work-From-Home Email Scams]It may seem like iPhone users, or "iPhoneographers," dominate this art form, but there's a sizeable "Androidographer" community as well, especially on platforms like Google+, Instagram and Flickr.We spoke to five photographers who use their Android devices -- exclusively or in addition to other cameras -- to shoot, edit and share beautiful photos, and they offered some advice for those looking to enter the field.[More from Mashable: 5 Easy Steps To Make Your Job Descriptions Go Viral]"Shooting with my Droid is my favorite thing to do with my clothes on," Stokes says. She finds her Android device, with its camera and sharing capabilities, to be a perfect immediate art form. "The more pictures I took, the more I saw what could be achieved, and the more I liked it," she says.Stokes enjoys shooting nature -- waterscapes, flowers, sunrises and sunsets -- as well as anything she sees during the day with an interesting light or unusual aspect. "My Android device inspires me with its versatility ... and absolutely beautiful color and results," she says.Stokes mentions that mobile photographers should make shooting with their phones a habit, or a ritual -- that way, it will "quickly, almost automatically, become one of your favorite art forms.""I use my Android because it fits in my pocket or purse in a way a DSLR just doesn't," she says. "Not having a million settings forces me to think about the photo in a different way."Cowden advises mobile photographers to make sure the lens is always clean, and to always be on the lookout for natural light. "Since the camera phone is not very adjustable, I try to start out with good lighting so I can focus on framing and composition," she says.For Tidmore, the benefit of using an Android device extends past its convenient size -- he likes that everything is maintained on one device. "It's being able to do all of my editing, and upload [photos] to a social network, all on my phone no matter where I am," he says. "I have a job where I'm out and about all day, and being able to create on my phone while I should be working is awesome."His main piece of advice for mobile photographers? Experiment with apps. "There is no shortage of photography apps in the App Store or Google Play. Spend a lot of time working with different ones until you find your 'style' or something that really clicks with you," he advises. "Other than that, shoot often ... and have fun!"Hamelin uses editing apps like UCam Ultra Camera (which allows him to focus easier) and Pixlr-o-matic for filters. The HTC Desire also includes camera software that creates panoramic photos."I always try to have pictures that tell stories or at least that give a feeling," Hamelin says. "All my pictures taken with my smartphone are made to be seen by my friends that live far away from me [in Belgium], so I try to put what I feel inside."Hamelin suggests that fellow mobile photographers "look everywhere, shoot, move, shoot again -- the more you take pictures, the more you find what works and what does not.""Convenience is the biggest factor," Mistry says. "I have my phone on me all the time, and it has a pretty good camera attached to it. I do usually carry my DSLR around with me, too, but sometimes it's just quicker to get that snapshot with my phone." She explains that being able to share her photos instantly is another reason why her smartphone's camera comes in handy.Mistry is an advocate for editing photos, but she advises mobile photographers to be smart about it."I know there's a lot of backlash against filters on your photos, and I can understand [that] backlash," she says. "Which is why I say use filters, but don't abuse filters. Don't feel the need to add a filter if your photo doesn't need it. Sometimes a photo is perfectly brilliant without a filter over the top of it."This app is a no-brainer. Simple and intuitive, Photoshop Express lets you make the necessary adjustments to crop, exposure, color, tint, hue, saturation, contrast and levels with ease. You can create artistic looking shots with the swipe of your finger when you add many of the classic filters from Photoshop, including "Lens zoom," "Grain" and "Glow."While somewhat simple, the app works well. Plus it’s free — so, if you don’t already have it, you should be uploading it now.Price: FREEClick here to view this gallery.Image courtesy of iStockphoto, franckreporter.This story originally published on Mashable here.	4	4	4	3	3	3	2	4	3	2	3	2	2	1	4	4