Some of the biggest names in digital will gather at the Social Good Summit this weekend, Sept. 22- 24, to discuss how technology is solving our greatest challenges.[More from Mashable: U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Joins the Social Good Summit]At the 92Y in New York City, these influential figures, including world leaders, celebrities and digital innovators from companies such as Google, Wikipedia, Twitter, Meetup and Microsoft, will discuss a range of topics that reflect how technology is truly empowering people. The full program is available here.Key digital leaders include:[More from Mashable: Wikipedia Founder to Speak at Social Good Summit]Make sure to secure a spot to hear these innovators speak; tickets are limited but still available!These digital leaders will join many other influential individuals at the Social Good Summit, taking place Sept. 22-24 in New York City. New York Times bestselling author and Chopra Foundation founder Deepak Chopra, Academy Award winning actors Mira Sorvino and Forest Whitaker will also be present onstage.The Social Good Summit is a three-day conference that will unite global leaders as they share how to use the power of innovative thinking and technology to solve the world's greatest challenges. Tickets are available for all three days.The Social Good Summit is where big ideas meet new media to create innovative solutions. Held during UN Week, the Social Good Summit unites a dynamic community of global leaders to discuss a big idea: the power of innovative thinking and technology to solve our greatest challenges.Date: Saturday, Sept. 22, 2012, through Monday, Sept. 24, 2012 Time: 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. each day Location: 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Ave., New York, NY Tickets: $130 for a three-day pass.Press: Press credentials will be given to press and bloggers from around the world for all Social Good Summit sessions and the Digital Media Lounge (DML). The DML is a fully wired work space at 92Y to report out of, network with fellow members of the media, and self-organize interviews and exclusive content from Social Good Summit sessions. The DML will be open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., Sept. 22-24. To apply, please fill in the form here.This story originally published on Mashable here.	2	1	2	2	2	1	2	2	3	1	3	1	2	1	2	4